AAMI Stadium , formerly known as Football Park , is an AFL stadium located in West Lakes , Adelaide , South Australia . It was built in 1973 by the South Australian Football League ( SANFL ) and is now the home ground of the Adelaide Crows and Port Adelaide Power . AAMI Stadium is the fourth largest AFL stadium in Australia in terms of crowd capacity , behind the Telstra Dome , Telstra Stadium and the Melbourne Cricket Ground . Football Park hosted its first event , an SANFL match between Central District and North Adelaide , on May 4 , 1974 . In addition to football , AAMI Stadium has also hosted cricket matches , most famously for the Kerry Packer - run World Series Cricket competition of the late 1970s , International Rules and concerts . Since it was built , Football Park has had many additions including light towers , corporate boxes , a super screen , the new northern grandstand , and most recently replacing the bench seats with new bucket seating and another super screen . The stadium is all - seated with an absolute maximum capacity of 51,515 , about 5 % of the population of the entire city of Adelaide . The record attendance stands at 66,897 for the 1976 SANFL Grand Final ( Sturt v Port Adelaide ) , when there was standing room terracing in the outer . AAMI Stadium has a bus terminal for public buses from Adelaide and surrounding suburbs . There is no railway but there have been plans to build a spur from the Grange line . The nearest station is Grange . Many people also drive with their cars to AAMI Stadium on game day but finding a parking spot can be difficult , especially if people are going to a Showdown ( AFL ) or a concert involving big name performers . In the next five years , AAMI Stadium is most likely to receive a $70 million upgrade . The upgrade will include a Medallion Club on the eastern side roof ( the Sun often shines towards this direction ) , the members grandstand roof raised with 2,000 extra seats , an upgraded sound system , upgraded lighting , and upgraded umpires ' change rooms . In 1984 the Light Towers were installed . In 1985 alcohol was banned from the seats . Alcohol could only be consumed in the bar areas . In 1997 the stadium opened new corporate facilities , with suites at the southern end of the ground . In 1998 the Superscreen was added to the NE side of the ground . In 2001 the balcony upper level of seats was extended towards the Northern End of the ground . In 2004 the existing Aluminium bench seating on the lower deck was replaced with plastic bucket seats . In 2007 , the Sound System was fully upgraded with new plastic PA speakers installed all around the stadium . A new and louder siren has also been added and a new super screen has been installed at the Southern End of the ground to aid viewers sitting under the exisitng Superscreen on the North East side of the ground . The existing main scoreboard was given a new role in A\advertising and new scoreboards were built under both superscreens . Retrieved December 3 , 2006 . 