Adams Park , ( known previously as The Causeway Stadium while sponsored by Causeway Technologies ) is a football stadium in High Wycombe , Buckinghamshire that is the home ground of the League Two team Wycombe Wanderers . The ground is also rented out to London Wasps , a rugby union club that competes in the Guinness Premiership . The stadium shows just far Wycombe Wanderers have come in a relatively short space of time . What 15 years ago was a rather basic non - league stadium just coming up to Football League specification is now a stadium for a club of Wycombe 's stature to really be proud of . 1990 - Situated right on the edge of the Sands Industrial Estate in High Wycombe , the stadium was opened in time for the 1990 / 91 season , originally having a capacity of 6,000 with 1,267 seats in the Main Stand . The move was financed almost solely by the sale of the club 's former stadium Loakes Park to the health authorities to facilitate the expansion of Wycombe General Hospital . It had come after a period of 30 years in which a site had been sought for a new stadium after Loakes Park had been earmarked for the site of the hospital development . Due to High Wycombe 's hilly geography finding a suitably flat piece of ground that was also in a convenient place was not easy . The new stadium coincided with an upturn in the club 's fortunes as , under the guidance of Martin O'Neill , they won the FA Trophy at Wembley thanks to a 2 - 1 win over Kidderminster Harriers . This was no doubt helped by the fact the club had no loans to service due to the stadium construction . It was during this season before the original date of the FA Cup 2nd Round tie against professional side Peterborough United that the infamous scene of football commentator John Motson being engulfed by what can only be described as a blizzard that had suddenly come over the Chiltern Hills during a live television broadcast before the game . Two seasons later , the stadium witnessed Wycombe do the double by not only storming to the Conference title by a country mile , but also by winning the FA Trophy in a 4 - 1 win over Runcorn at Wembley in front of around 28,000 Wycombe fans making the short trip down the railway line . Wycombe had reached the Football League for the first time in their history , a significant achievement for a club that had been a bastion of amateur football for so many decades . It was during this season that Wycombe officially recorded a then record crowd at Adams Park ( the record at Loakes Park was 15,850 against St Albans City in 1950 ) of some 7,230 against Slough Town , though many eye - witness reports claim that as many 9,000 were let in due to concerns of overcrowding outside the stadium due to the huge interest from both sides ' fans in the match . Many who could n't get in the ground watched from the hills overlooking the stadium . A few months after entering the Football League , the crush barriers on the terraces at Adams Park were upgraded , taking the capacity not far shy of the 10,000 mark . Promotion in the first season from the erstwhile Division 3 ( current Coca - Cola League 2 ) via the play - offs was followed by 