Ahearn Field House is one of the athletic buildings on the campus of Kansas State University in Manhattan , Kansas . It is currently home to the K - State volleyball team and indoor track and field squad , and houses facilities for the Department of Kinesiology , Department of Continuing Education , and the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics . The facility was named in honor of Michael F. Ahearn . Over the years ' Mike ' Ahearn served Kansas State University in a variety of roles that included coach , professor , Head of the Department of Physical Education , and Director of Athletics . In the US during the 1930s and 1940s the popularity of basketball as an intercollegiate sport increased . At the same time , the KSU men 's basketball teams enjoyed great success , reaching the Final Four of the 1948 NCAA tournament . As a consequence , the number of people attending games steadily increased , and began to exceed the capacity of the existing facility , Nichols Gymnasium . By the mid - 1940s students would have to climb into the rafters in order to find a seat to watch the men’s team play . Not only was this situation uncomfortable , it was also unsafe . In the late - 1940s the Kansas State Legislature approved the construction of a new and much larger basketball facility , designed to overcome the capacity and safety shortcomings of Nichols Gymnasium . Opened in 1950 with a seating capacity of more than 14,000 , Ahearn Field House was one of the first and largest purpose - built basketball arenas in the US. Changing fire codes over the years forced changes to the seating arrangements that eventually reduced seating capacity to 11,700 for the 1987 - 1988 season . This was the final season in which K - State basketball games were held in Ahearn . It hosted the men 's NCAA basketball tournament regional finals six times ( 1953 , 1955 , 1960 , 1962 , 1965 , and 1969 ) , as well as a quarterfinal game in the 1976 NIT . Ahearn Field House provided a legendary homecourt advantage for K - State . Former Kansas State coach Tex Winter said in his biography Trial By Basketball : " Kansas State won a lot of ballgames because of that crowd . Many times during timeouts you could n't hear yourself talk . All I could do was scribble a play on the floor . The crowd there never died , even in one of our lulls – the crowd would come alive and pick us up. " . By 1988 many felt that Ahearn – like Nichols before it – had grown outdated , and that year K - State basketball moved to the newly - constructed Bramlage Coliseum . Over the years Ahearn has been modified to accommodate a variety of other activities , ranging from additional classroom space to providing venues for other intercollegiate sports such as indoor track and field and volleyball . Ahearn has also hosted NCAA volleyball tournament games four times since 1996 . 