North Entrance Atrium . Prior to a Raptors game commencing . The Air Canada Centre , often referred to simply as The ACC , is a multi - purpose arena located on Bay Street in downtown Toronto , Ontario . It is the home of the Toronto Maple Leafs of the National Hockey League , the Toronto Raptors of the National Basketball Association , and the Toronto Rock of the National Lacrosse League . It was also home to the Toronto Phantoms of the Arena Football League during their brief existence . The ACC is owned by Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. , the same group that owns both the Leafs and Raptors , and is 665,000 square feet ( 62,000 m² ) in size . An early nickname for the venue was " The Hangar " due to the corporate sponsor of the arena , Air Canada . However this name was never quite adopted by the general public . The Air Canada Centre is most commonly referred to as simply " The ACC " and has been referenced as such on the official Air Canada Centre website . It is located just south of Union Station . Andy Frost is the public address announcer at the ACC during Maple Leafs home games , while Herbie Kuhn does the job for the Toronto Raptors , and Bruce Barker is the announcer for Toronto Rock games . The Air Canada Centre was started by the Toronto Raptors under its initial ownership group headed by Canadian businessman John Bitove . The building was designed for both hockey and basketball , but basketball was its foremost purpose ; indeed , sight lines were designed to be especially good for basketball 's smaller court . While the building was under construction , the Maple Leafs were also looking at building their own new arena at a different location . Journalists such as the Toronto Star 's Dave Perkins encouraged both sides to pair up into one arena ; two 20,000 - seat arenas were seen as overkill for the city . In purchasing the Raptors and the under - construction Air Canada Centre , MLSE provided the Maple Leafs the venue to move out of the aging legendary Maple Leaf Gardens . MLSE made some changes to the plans while the construction was underway , including turning upper level seats in the west end of the arena into private boxes . The Air Canada Centre 's groundbreaking was performed in February of 1997 . The site was once occupied by the Canada Post Delivery Building . The current building retained the striking facades of the east ( along Bay Street ) and south ( Lakeshore Boulevard ) walls of that structure , but the rest of the building ( facing Union Station ) was removed to make room for the arena . The 15 - storey tower on Bay Street stands at 55 metres , and provides connections in the atrium to Union Station , Bay Street , and York Street ( via Bremner Boulevard ) . The first Maple Leafs home game took place on February 20 , 1999 versus the Montreal Canadiens , won by the Leafs 3 - 2 on an overtime goal by Steve Thomas . The first Raptors game took place the following night versus the Vancouver Grizzlies . The facility hosted the 2000 NHL All - Star Game and the championship game of the 2004 World Cup of Hockey . The Toronto Rock also moved to the ACC from Maple Leaf Gardens for the 2001 NLL 