Allen Fieldhouse is an indoor arena at the University of Kansas in Lawrence , Kansas . The arena was named in honor of Dr. Forrest C. " Phog " Allen , who coached the university 's men 's basketball team for 39 years . The actual playing surface is the James Naismith Court , honoring the inventor of basketball who later established Kansas ' basketball program and served as its first coach from 1898 to 1907 . Before the start of every home game , it is tradition to sing the alma mater , " Crimson and the Blue " ; followed by the Rock Chalk Chant . Allen Fieldhouse was dedicated on March 1 , 1955 when the Jayhawks defeated their in - state rival , the Kansas State Wildcats , 77 - 67 . Since then renovations have included minor seating expansions in 1986 and 1994 , as well as accessibility upgrades in 1999 to modernize concession stands and restroom facilities , and to install an elevator in the south end . Handicapped seating was moved courtside behind both baskets in 2001 . Renovations completed in 2005 include a thorough cleaning of the exterior , and the creation of a new Booth Family Hall of Athletics facility on the east side of the Fieldhouse . Interior renovations include a new hardwood court , new windows , and a multi - million dollar video board and sound system . After 2006 , new banners for the retired jerseys and conference and national championships were installed . Banners hang in the south rafters to honor such Jayhawk greats as Wilt Chamberlain , Clyde Lovellette , Jo Jo White , Danny Manning , Paul Pierce , Lynette Woodard , Kirk Hinrich , Drew Gooden , and Nick Collison . There is also a banner to honor Max Falkenstien , the legendary Jayhawks radio announcer , who served the university for more than 60 years . To date he is the only non - athlete to be honored at Allen Fieldhouse in this way . The east and west sides are devoted to KU 's conference championships ( a total of 50 as of 2007 ) as members of the Missouri Valley Conference , Big Six , Big Seven , Big Eight , and Big 12 Conference , as well as the Jayhawks ' trips to the Final Four and national championships in 1922 , 1923 ( Helms Foundation championships ) , 1952 , and 1988 . The concourse was originally an indoor track , and at times the Fieldhouse has been home to men 's and women 's basketball , indoor track and field , volleyball , and practice facilities for the football and softball teams . It has since specialized as facilities were constructed around campus to accommodate these needs , and now serves exclusively as the home for Jayhawk basketball . Allen Fieldhouse has also hosted several NCAA tournament regionals , NBA exhibition games , and occasional speakers and concerts . Kansas won 62 consecutive games at the Fieldhouse between January 30 , 1994 and November 21 , 1998 . This mark exceeded the previous school record of 55 games , which lasted from February 22 , 1984 through January 30 , 1988 . However , the 55 - game streak remains a conference record for the old Big Eight , while the 62 - game streak spanned both the Big Eight and Big 12 conferences . Max Falkenstien was a stalwart figure in the radio booth , working every home game in Allen from its construction to his 