Aloha Stadium is a stadium located in Honolulu , Hawai'i . Currently Aloha Stadium is home to the University of Hawaii Warriors football team ( Western Athletic Conference , NCAA Division I - A ) . Since 1980 , it has also been the site of the National Football League 's Pro Bowl . It also hosts numerous high school football games during the season , and serves as a venue for large concerts and events . A swap meet in the stadium 's parking lot every weekend draws large crowds . Aloha Stadium once served as home field for the AAA Hawaii Islanders of the Pacific Coast League from 1975 to 1987 before the team moved to Colorado Springs . Aloha Stadium could be reconfigured into various configurations for different sport venues and other purposes , and is the first stadium in the United States with this capability . Four movable sections , each 3.5 million pounds and with a capacity of 7,000 , could move using air cushions into a diamond configuration for baseball ( also used for soccer ) , an oval for football , or a triangle for concerts . Effective January 2007 , the stadium was permanently locked into its football configuration , citing cost and maintenance issues. . There have also been numerous discussions with State of Hawaii lawmakers who are concerned with the physical condition of the stadium . There are several issues regarding rusting of the facility , several hundred seats that need to be replaced , and restroom facilities that need to be expanded to accommodate more patrons . In early 2007 , the state legislature has proposed to spend $300 million to build a new facility as opposed to spending approx . One council member has said that if immediate repairs are not made within the next seven years , then the stadium will probably have to be demolished due to safety concerns . In May 2007 , the state alloted 12.4 million dollars USD to be used towards removing corrosion and rust from the structure . Located west of downtown Honolulu and 2 miles north of Honolulu International Airport , Aloha Stadium was built in 1975 at a cost of $37 million . It was intended as a replacement for the aging Honolulu Stadium on King Street , demolished in 1976 . In 1997 , a three - game regular season series between Major League Baseball 's St. Louis Cardinals and San Diego Padres was held at this stadium . In 2003 , the stadium surface was changed from AstroTurf to FieldTurf . Aloha Stadium has also been used for large - scale concerts , including The Rolling Stones on their Bridges to Babylon Tour in 1998 , Celine Dion on her Let 's Talk About Love Tour in 1999 , and the final shows of Mariah Carey 's Butterfly World Tour in 1998 , the final stops on U2 's Vertigo Tour in 2006 and Janet Jackson 's All for You Tour in 2002 , which was broadcast on HBO . Aloha Stadium - University of Hawaii Athletics Dept . 