Alumni Stadium is a football stadium located on the campus of Boston College in Chestnut Hill , Massachusetts , approximately two miles west of Boston . It is the home of the Boston College Eagles . Its present seating capacity is 44,500 . Opened in 1915 as " Alumni Field , " Boston College 's first stadium was located just south of Gasson Quadrangle , on the site of the present " Campus Green " , better known as the " Dustbowl. " . While today that area of BC 's campus is grass - covered and landscaped , the Dustbowl nickname originated as a description of Alumni Field in the years when it was intensely - used not only as a gridiron , but a practice field , a baseball diamond and a running track . Formally dedicated " as a memorial to the boys that were " on October 30 , 1915 , Alumni Field and its distinctive " maroon goal - posts on a field of green " were hailed in that evening 's edition of the Boston Saturday Evening Transcript as " one of the sights in Boston. " . The original grandstands , which could accommodate 2,200 spectators in 1915 , were enlarged over the subsequent years such that a 1941 concert band drew a record crowd of 25,000 . Nonetheless Alumni Field often proved too small for BC football games which were frequently held at Fenway Park , and later Braves Field , beginning in the 1930s and 1940s . On September 21 , 1957 Alumni Stadium opened on Boston College 's lower campus . The new stadium incorporated a football field encircled by a regulation track with a seating capacity of 26,000 . The dedication game , a match up with the Midshipmen of the U.S. Naval Academy , was orchestrated with the help of BC benefactor and then - Massachusetts Senator John F. Kennedy . Kennedy , who had received his honorary degree at Commencement Exercises in Alumni Field the previous year , would return to Alumni Stadium on a number of occasions over the course of his political career , including a 1963 Convocation Address , one of his last public appearances . Alumni Stadium has hosted numerous intellectual and cultural luminaries , religious leaders and heads of state as the venue for Boston College 's annual Commencement Exercises since 1957 . In addition to being the permanent home of the Boston College football team , Alumni Stadium hosted the Boston Patriots of the American Football League during the 1969 season . The stadium underwent a major renovation before the 1994 season which eliminated the track and increased seating capacity to 44,500 . Since 1998 , a 65 - foot - high bubble of inflatable vinyl has covered the stadium from December to March and allowed the field to be used as a winter practice facility . The field surface itself was converted to FieldTurf before the 2004 season . In the summer before the 2005 football season , the $27 million Yawkey Athletics Center opened at Alumni Stadium 's north end zone , and the ACC logo of the Atlantic Coast Conference was added to the FieldTurf surface . As the home of the Boston College Eagles , Alumni Stadium has been the site of numerous notable moments in Boston College football history . On September 17 , 2005 , Alumni Stadium hosted BC 's inaugural game as a member of the Atlantic Coast Conference . Alumni Stadium 's south façade , facing Beacon Street . 