The American Airlines Center is an arena located in the Victory Park neighborhood near downtown Dallas , Texas that is used for hockey games , basketball games , football games and concerts . By 1998 , the Dallas Mavericks owned by Mark Cuban and Dallas Stars were indicating their desire for a new facility to replace Reunion Arena . Dallas taxpayers approved a new hotel tax and rental car tax to pay for a new facility to cover a portion of the funding , with the two benefiting teams , the Mavericks and the Stars , picking up the remaining costs , including cost overruns . The new arena was to be built just north of Woodall Rodgers Freeway near Interstate 35E on the site of an old power plant . On 18 March 1999 , American Airlines announced that it would be acquiring the naming rights for the arena for US$195 million . On 27 July 2001 , the facility opened with the largest ribbon cutting ceremony ever , according to the Guinness Book of Records . The first event occurred the next day with an Eagles concert . On the next night , the arena hosted the last show of Michael Flatley 's Feet of Flames tour . The first sporting event took place on 19 August 2001 with the Dallas Sidekicks of the World Indoor Soccer League taking on the San Diego Sockers . The American Airlines Center is meant to be the heart of a new urban , commercial area designed to reinvigorate the city of Dallas called Victory Park . The facility itself features a conservative , traditional design with sweeping brick façades and smooth arches , and has been graced with a number of awards ( below ) . The interior includes retractable seating , public art and a state - of - the - art technological arena . Because of the Quonset hut - like appearance of its roof and the fact that American Airlines holds the naming rights some fans have come to refer to it as " The Hangar. " . Others just call it the AAC ( pronounced " A - A - C , " or sometimes " double A−C " ) . Hosted the 55th National Hockey League All - Star Game on January 24 , 2007 . The American Airlines Center is not to be confused with the AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami . The American Airlines Center as well as the AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami , Florida hosted the 2006 NBA Finals , in which the Dallas Mavericks played the Miami Heat . Because of this , the series was nicknamed by some as the American Airlines series . A few weeks after the first event , it was found that the glass installed in the bathrooms was not the same as what was originally intended . Many who drove by the arena complained they had a clear view into the restrooms . The glass was quickly changed to the correct type the next week . Hosted WWE Survivor Series 2003 and Saturday Night 's Main Event on July 15 , 2006 . It also hosted WWE Homecoming on October 3 , 2005 . After the Dallas Desperados played their first season in the American Airlines Center , they moved to Reunion Arena and played there in their second season . After their second season , they moved back to the American Airlines Center where they currently reside . The Center hosted the Big 12 Basketball Tournament in 2003 , 2004 , and 2006 . The Philadelphia 