Anfield is a football stadium in the district of Anfield , in Liverpool , England . A UEFA 4 - star rated stadium , it is the home of Liverpool F.C . The stadium is well known for the Kop stand on the south - west side of the ground , and the atmosphere fans can create at games . The club plans to replace Anfield with a new Stanley Park Stadium , where construction is set to begin in 2007 . In 1882 Everton F.C. were forced to find an enclosed ground for their matches due to rent problems - previously they had played on the public pitches in Stanley Park . At a meeting conducted in the Sandon Hotel in Everton they managed to rent a field off Priory Road . However , two years later the owner asked them to leave and John Houlding ( a Liverpool brewer ) helped them secure a pitch from fellow brewer John Orrell at Anfield Road adjacent to Stanley Park . The first game was played on 28 September 1884 when Everton beat Earlstown 5 - 0 . Over the ensuing eight years Houlding poured money into the club and improved the facilities with purpose - built stands . Attendances topped 8000 and in 1888 Everton became founder members of the Football League . Houlding became more proprietorial and insisted that the club use his hotel for changing before and after games ; he also increased the rate of interest on his loan to the club . John Orrell threatened to withdraw the tenancy of Anfield Road in 1891 unless certain alterations were undertaken . At a further meeting on 15 March 1892 Houlding was outvoted and the club decided to leave . A building fund was immediately set up and £1,517 pounds raised to purchase a new ground . The chosen location was Goodison Park on the north side of Stanley Park , Liverpool , less than a mile away , and was purchased for £8,000 . The stadium features tributes to two of the most successful managers , with the Paisley Gates , named for Bob Paisley , who guided Liverpool to three European Cups and six League Championships in the 1970s and 80s , and Shankly Gates , named for Bill Shankly , Paisley 's predecessor between 1959 and 1974 . Shankly Gates features the lettering " You'll Never Walk Alone " , from the Gerry & the Pacemakers hit that has become the club 's anthem . Inside the gates is another tribute to Shankly , a statue outside the club shop , and inside the players tunnel remains a plaque Shankly had installed reading " This is Anfield " , which he placed to " remind our lads who they're playing for - - and to remind the opposition who they're playing against. " . Another feature was The Boot Room . Home and away fans leave their scarfs at The Hillsborough Memorial , which pays tribute to the 96 fans who died in the Hillsborough disaster . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help ] improve this article ] by adding reliable references . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . A panoramic photo of Anfield , looking from the Kop stand towards Anfield Road Stand . Liverpool proceeded quickly to develop Anfield . The first stage was the provision of a significant Main Stand , completed in 1895 with a highly distinctive half - timbered gable that proved a landmark in English football until its demolition in the early 1970s 