The Araneta Coliseum is the largest indoor facility in Southeast Asia , with a dome diameter of 108 meters . It is located in Quezon City , Philippines . Nicknamed " The Big Dome " , it hosts sporting and entertainment events in the country . In 1952 , J. Amado Araneta , a business tycoon , purchased a 35 - hectare Cubao property that is now the Araneta Center from Radio Corporation of America ( RCA ) . The property which includes the Araneta family home is bounded by Epifanio Delos Santos Avenue , Aurora Boulevard , P. Tuazon and 15th Avenue . It is the centerpiece of the Araneta Center , offering a one - stop shopping , dining and entertainment experience . The Araneta family was once the wealthiest family in Asia . The family is very small and is not extended , it is also well known to be " Asian royalty " . Construction of the Araneta Coliseum was started in 1957 and finished in late 1959 . In 1960 to 1963 , the Coliseum received international recognition as the " Biggest covered coliseum in the world " . Even today , it still remains as one of the largest clear span dome in the world and the largest indoor facility in Southeast Asia with a dome diameter of 108 meters . It occupies a total land area of almost 40,000 square metres and has a floor area or 2,300 square metres . The coliseum opened on March 16 , 1960 , with Gabriel " Flash " Elorde boxing for the World Junior Lightweight crown from American Harold Gomes . More than 33,000 spectators watched the contest . General admission then was 80 centavos and reserve section was five pesos . Throughout the years , the Araneta Coliseum management adheres to the commitment of J. Amado Araneta to provide the Filipino people with the best entertainment at the lowest admission possible . Some of the most remembered performances were the " Thrilla in Manila " which was the Ali - Frazier World Heavyweight Championship Fight , the Philippine Basketball Association Games , R2K Concert by Regine Velasquez and annually , the Binibining Pilipinas Beauty Pageant . In 1999 , the coliseum underwent its first major renovation at a cost of P200 million . Purefoods vs. Red Bull during the 2006 PBA Finals at the Big Dome . A stroll at the Upper Box corridor reveals the famous people who have performed at the Big Dome . 2006 WWE SMACKDOWN ! . 