Arrowhead Stadium is a stadium located in Kansas City , Missouri , and home to the National Football League 's Kansas City Chiefs and Major League Soccer 's Kansas City Wizards . It is part of the city 's Truman Sports Complex ( together with Kauffman Stadium ) . Fans occasionally refer to the stadium as The Red Sea or simply Arrowhead . The stadium is commonly referred to as the " Home of the CHIEFS " at the beginning of every home game . Arrowhead has long held a reputation for being one of , if not the , loudest outdoor stadium in the NFL due to the exuberance of the Chiefs ' fans . Fan generated noise was once measured at 116 decibels by the Acoustical Design Group of Mission , KS . This contributes to the unique " atmosphere " of the stadium , for which Sports Illustrated gave the Chiefs ' home field , Arrowhead Stadium , the title of being the " Toughest Place to Play " for opposing teams . In January 1967 , the Chiefs played in the first Super Bowl . In October Charlie Finley finally got approval to move the Kansas City Athletics to Oakland , California and out of the aging Municipal Stadium and its inner city neighborhood . The City of Kansas City was unable to find a suitable location for a stadium so Jackson County , Missouri stepped in and offered a suburban location on the extreme east edge of Kansas City near the interchange of Interstate 70 and Interstate 435 . Voters in 1967 approved a $102 million bond issue to build new stadiums . The original design called for construction of separate baseball and football stadiums with a common roof that would roll between them . The design proved to be more complicated and expensive than originally thought and so was scrapped in favor of the current open air configuration . The two - stadium complex concept was the first of its kind . The Chiefs staff , led by Jack Steadman , helped develop the complex . Construction began in 1968 . The original two stadium concept was initially suggested by Denver architect Charles Deaton and Steadman . It was implemented by the Kansas City architect firm of Kivett & Myers . Arrowhead was SO well designed , nearly every football stadium built ever since has been influenced by its design . In 1975 the firm merged with Kansas City architect firm HNTB which has gone on to design stadiums across the country including the following NFL stadiums : Giants Stadium , RCA Dome , INVESCO Field at Mile High , and Ralph Wilson Stadium . Other architects from Kivett joined HOK Sport + Venue + Event which is headquartered in Kansas City . Almost every professional stadium the United States in the last 20 years has been designed by the firms . Construction on Arrowhead Stadium was completed for the 1972 season . On August 12 , 1972 , The Chiefs defeated the St. Louis Cardinals 24 - 14 in the first game at Arrowhead Stadium . On January 20 , 1974 , Arrowhead hosted the NFL Pro Bowl , which was won by the AFC , 15 - 13 . In 1984 , the Jackson County Sports Authority re - evaluated the concept of a dome ( a fabric one ) . The concept was disregarded as being unnecessary and financially impractical . In 1991 , a JumboTron screen was installed . In 1994 other improvements were made and a grass playing surface 