Arsenal Stadium was a football stadium in North London , the home ground of Arsenal Football Club between 6 September 1913 and 7 May 2006 . It was popularly known as Highbury , being in that area of London . It was given the affectionate and unofficial nickname of " The Home of Football " , by both fans and the club . Arsenal Stadium was originally built in 1913 on the site of a local college 's recreation ground . It has since been redeveloped twice , the first in the 1930s ( from which the still - existing Art Deco East and West Stands date ) , and the second in the late 1980 and early 1990s following the Taylor Report , during which the terraces at both ends of the pitch were replaced , reducing the stadium 's capacity . This reduction , coupled with East Stand 's listed building status , has prevented Arsenal from maximising their matchday revenue , so in 2006 the club moved to the nearby and larger Emirates Stadium , constructed by the club as a replacement for Highbury . Since then , Highbury has been undergoing redevelopment to turn it into an apartment complex , with most of the stadium having been demolished , save for parts of the East and West Stands , which are being incorporated into the new development . As well as being home to Arsenal for over 90 years , the stadium also hosted England matches and FA Cup semi - finals , as well as other sports such as boxing , baseball and cricket . Its presence also led to the local Tube station being renamed to " Arsenal " in 1932 , making it the only station on the network to be named after a football club . At the time of its closure , the stadium consisted of four separate all - seater stands ; the pitch was aligned north - south , with the North Bank Stand and South Stand ( popularly known as the Clock End ) at the ends . The East and West Stands ran alongside the pitch , and are two of the few examples of British football stands designed in the Art Deco style . The East Stand incorporated the club 's offices and was well known for its marble halls , which are often cited in media depictions of the stadium , and the facade that faces onto Avenell Road . The stand is considered architecturally significant enough to have been designated a Grade II listed building . When it closed , Highbury had a capacity of 38,419 ( approximately 12,500 in the North Bank , 11,000 in the West Stand , 9,000 in the East Stand and 6,000 in the Clock End ) , all seated , and had Jumbotron screens in the south - east and north - west corners . The stadium 's main entrances were on Gillespie Road , Avenell Road and Highbury Hill . Before the Taylor Report and the era of all - seater stadiums in Britain , both the North Bank and Clock End consisted of terracing , and the stadium often saw crowds of up to 60,000 or more ; its largest attendance was 73,295 on March 9 1935 when Arsenal played Sunderland ; the game finished 0 - 0 . Arsenal Stadium was well known for its very small immaculately - kept pitch , which measured only 109×73 yards ( 100×67 metres ) . Arsenal 's groundsmen , Steve Braddock and his successor Paul Burgess , have 