The AT&T Center is an indoor arena located in San Antonio , Texas , USA . It was completed in 2002 as the SBC Center at a cost of $186 million , financed by a local sales tax . The arena is home to the San Antonio Spurs of the NBA and the San Antonio Rampage of the AHL in the winter - spring , the San Antonio Silver Stars of the WNBA in the summer , and the annual San Antonio Stock Show & Rodeo held in February . It seats 18,500 for basketball and 13,000 for hockey , and contains 50 luxury suites . SBC Communications , Inc. purchased the naming rights to the facility under a 20 - year , $41 million naming rights agreement with the City of San Antonio , the San Antonio Spurs and the San Antonio Stock Show & Rodeo in July 2000 . SBC Communications changed its name to AT&T , Inc. in November 2005 after its purchase of AT&T Corporation . The arena officially changed its name to AT&T Center in January 2006 . Previously , the Spurs played at the football - intended Alamodome , a multi - purpose facility with a configuration that allowed half the floor space to be used for basketball . Although the Alamodome was still relatively new ( opening in 1993 ) , it had become clear over the years that the Spurs were using the dome for much of the year , making it difficult to schedule contiguous dates for conventions or even a regular - season football schedule . Although seating capacity in the Alamodome made the facility the largest in the NBA , the Spurs and fans were not satisfied with the facility because of its poor sight lines for basketball and the cavernous nature of the arena configuration . Being primarily a football stadium differentiated the Alamodome from most other NBA facilities , including the Spurs ' previous home HemisFair Arena . The Spurs management always considered the Alamodome a temporary , not permanent , solution and if a new arena deal had not be made the team most certainly would have left the city . Additionally , since the Alamodome opened there had been a plethora of new arena construction including facilities such as Conseco Fieldhouse , which , in addition to offering an intimate atmosphere , offered teams several new revenue generating opportunities , including suites located on the lower levels and large club level seating areas . The Spurs campaigned for several years for a new facility . The Spurs and the city had come to an agreement to build a new facility adjacent to the Alamodome , but in a last - minute reversal , the team partnered with Bexar County to construct a new arena adjacent to the Freeman Coliseum . As a part of the agreement the facility would be home to the Spurs , a new hockey team , and the San Antonio Stock Show & Rodeo Association 's annual , multi - day event ( the latter requiring the Spurs to engage in an extended road trip every February ) . The facility would be funded through an increase of hotel and car rental taxes , and Bexar County voters approved the plan in November 1999 . Coincidentally , the election was held on the same day the Spurs received their NBA Championship rings for their 1999 championship title . SBC Center logo ( 2002 - 2006 ) . After the arena referendum passed , planning quickly began for construction on the new 