The Athletics - Recreation Center is a 5,000 - seat multi - purpose arena in Valparaiso , Indiana , located at 1009 Union Street . It serves as the home court for Valparaiso University men 's and women 's basketball teams as well as the volleyball team . The oldest parts of the building date to 1939 and are among the first facilities built at the University after it was purchased by the Lutherans . This original building was expanded in 1962 to include more seating for basketball and a swimming pool on the first floor . Known as the Hilltop Gym this facility was home for Valpo basketball when it competed in the NCAA 's old " college " classification , for smaller schools . Despite this the gym was still witness to a number of historic individuals including Larry Bird who competed in the gym when Valpo played against his Indiana State Sycamores , and Robert Kennedy , who gave a speech there during his presidential campaign . Beginning in the late 70 's it was decided that Valpo needed to expand its basketball facilities again , and in 1984 , the 7.25 million dollar expansion on the north side of the gym , named the Athletics and Recreation Center ( or ARC for short ) was completed . The men 's basketball team played their first game there on December 9th , 1984 against the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame University , from nearby South Bend , IN . The greatest upset in the ARC occurred four years later against this same team , when Valpo defeated the then 19th ranked Fighting Irish in front of 4,913 fans . In 1995 the ARC hosted the finals of the Mid - Continent Conference men’s basketball tournament . Since that time a number of smaller renovations have occurred in and around the facility . In the fall of 1999 the men 's and women 's coaching staffs moved into the new Schrage Basketball Wing , added to the east side of the main arena . In 2005 the old Hilltop Gym on the south side of the building was renovated with new flooring , lighting , windows and numerous banners celebrating Valpo 's basketball tradition . It is now used as a practice facility for the men 's and women 's basketball teams . In 2006 the weight lifting facilities were rearranged with athletes now having access to the Mosak Performance Center , a refurbished room in the building with new customized weight lifting equipment . The ARC 's capacity can easily be increased by adding bleachers to the East side which is usually left open . Also the building architects , Barton - Malow Company , left the north side of the building ammenable to future expansion . The largest crowd in school history was for a game against the Purdue University Boilermakers on November 16 , 2001 . The attendance was 5,425 fans . Future improvements to the facility have been floated but none are in the works for the near future . 