Atlanta - Fulton County Stadium was a baseball , football and soccer stadium that formerly stood in Atlanta , Georgia . Completed in just 50 weeks , for $18 million , it opened in the spring of 1965 as Atlanta Stadium . It was intended as the home of the soon - to - be - relocating Braves , but court battles kept the team in Milwaukee as a lame duck for a year . So the new stadium had a lame duck of its own for that first season : the Atlanta Crackers of the International League , whose previous home had been Ponce de Leon Park at 650 Ponce de Leon Avenue . In 1966 , both the NL 's transplanted Atlanta Braves and the NFL 's expansion Atlanta Falcons moved in . In 1967 the Atlanta Chiefs of the National Professional Soccer League ( reformed as the North American Soccer League in 1968 ) began the first of eight seasons played at the stadium . The stadium 's name was lengthened to Atlanta - Fulton County Stadium with Ted Turner 's purchase of the Braves in 1976 . The Falcons moved to the Georgia Dome in 1992 , while the Braves had to wait until the Olympic Stadium from the 1996 Summer Olympics was renovated into Turner Field to move out at the beginning of the 1997 season . The stadium sat 60,700 for football and 52,013 for baseball . The baseball competition for the 1996 Summer Olympics was held at Atlanta - Fulton County Stadium . The stadium was relatively nondescript , one of the many saucer - shaped multipurpose facilities built during the 1960s and 1970s , usually known as " cookie cutter " stadiums , like ( Washington , New York , Houston , Pittsburgh , St. Louis , San Diego , Cincinnati , and Philadelphia ) . The stadium was long known for the poor quality of the field of play – no one bothered to hire full - time groundskeepers until the early 1990s , instead relying on a city work crew . The relatively high elevation of the Atlanta area ( situated at the foothills of the Appalachian Mountains ) meant that the stadium was relatively favorable to long - ball hitters , giving rise to the nickname The Launching Pad . That factor certainly helped boost Hank Aaron 's home run output , and he reached the all - time record sooner here than he might have in Milwaukee . One unusual feature of this stadium is the fact that , unlike most baseball stadiums used for football where the football field was laid either parallel to one of the foul lines or running from home plate to center field , the football field here was laid along a line running between first and third base . Thus , a seat behind home plate for baseball would also be behind the 50 - yard line for football . The stadium was refurbished for the 1996 season because it hosted the Olympic baseball competition . Atlanta - Fulton County Stadium was imploded on August 2 , 1997 . A parking lot for Turner Field now stands on the site , with an outline of the old stadium , and a plaque marking the spot where Hank Aaron 's historic 715th career home run landed on April 8 , 1974 , in what was formerly the Braves bullpen . That was one of the two most historic events ever to occur in the old park . The other came on October 28 