Ayresome Park was a football stadium in the town of Middlesbrough , United Kingdom , and was the home of Middlesbrough F.C. from its construction in time for the 1903 / 1904 season , until the Riverside Stadium opened in 1995 . Middlesbrough had previously played at Linthorpe Road , but a move to the football league meant that an improved stadium was required . Ayresome Park was built at Paradise Field , adjacent to the old stadium of Middlesbrough Ironopolis F.C. , who had played in the football league in the 1893 / 1894 season . The highest attendance at the ground ( 53,802 ) was set on December 27 , 1949 , when Middlesbrough played local rivals Newcastle United . Ayresome Park was also one of the venues for the 1966 Football World Cup . Three games were played at the ground , involving the Soviet Union , North Korea , Italy and Chile . North Korea famously beat Italy 1 - 0 at the ground to knock one of the biggest footballing nations out of the World Cup , progressing to the quarter - finals in the process . However , the attendances at Ayresome Park were the lowest in the entire tournament , with just 15,887 fans at the game for North Korea versus Chile . By the early 1990s the stadium was old and clearly in need of major work to bring it up to date , and the demands of the Taylor Report meant that either renovation or a new stadium was required if Middlesbrough were to secure a place in the new Premier League . The final competitive game at Ayresome Park was played against Luton Town on April 30th 1995 in a match which Boro won 2 - 1 . Before the game , many of Middlesbrough 's old players were paraded around the pitch in a lap of honour . Boro won promotion at the end of the season , meaning their next season would be played at the Riverside Stadium in the Premiership . Ayresome Park was demolished in 1997 and a housing estate now occupies the site . Middlesbrough Football Club used it as a training ground for much of the 1996 - 7 season before it was knocked down . The last ever game at the ground was a sell - out testimonial match for Stephen Pears where he notched the last ever goal at Ayresome Park , scoring from the penalty spot . 