Baker Bowl was the popular name of a baseball park that formerly stood in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania . Its formal name was National League Park . It was also initially known as Philadelphia Park or Philadelphia Base Ball Grounds . It was on a small city block bounded by N. Broad St. , W. Huntingdon St. , N. 15th St. and W. Lehigh Avenue . The ballpark , shoehorned as it was into the Philadelphia city grid , acquired a number of nicknames over the years . Huntingdon Street Grounds was a nickname for awhile , as it was a side street running behind the first base line that intersected Broad Street , a major thoroughfare . Baker Bowl , also called Baker Field in the baseball guides , referred to one - time Phillies owner William F. Baker . The use of " Baker Field " was perhaps confusing , since Columbia University 's athletic facility in New York City was also called " Baker Field " . How it acquired the unique suffix " Bowl " is subject to conjecture . It may have referred to the banked bicycle track that was there for a time , or it may have been derisive . The Hump referred to a hill in center field covering a partially submerged railroad tunnel in the street beyond right field that extended through into center field . The Cigar Box and The Band Box referred to the tiny size of the playing field . The most notable and talked - about feature of Baker Bowl was the right field wall , which was only some 280 feet ( 85 meters ) from home plate , with right - center only 300 feet ( 91.5 meters ) away , and with a wall - and - screen barrier that in its final form was 60 feet ( 18 meters ) high . By comparison , The Green Monster at Fenway Park is 37 feet ( 11 meters ) tall and 310 feet ( 94 meters ) away . The Baker wall was a rather difficult task to surmount . The wall was an amalgam of different materials . It was originally a relatively normal - height masonry structure . When it became clear that it was too soft a home - run touch , the barrier was extended upward using more masonry , wood , and a metal pipe - and - wire screen . The masonry in the lower part of the wall was extremely rough ( Benson termed it " the sort of surface that efficiently removes an outfielder 's skin upon contact " ) and eventually a layer of tin was laid over the entire structure except for the upper part of the screen . The wall dominated the stadium in much the same way as the Green Monster does , only some 30 feet closer to the diamond ; and because of its material , it made a distinctive sound when balls ricocheted off it , as happened frequently . The ballpark was initially built in 1887 . At that time the media praised it as state - of - the - art . In that dead - ball era , the outfield was enclosed by a relatively low wall all around . Center field was fairly close , with the railroad tracks running behind it . Later , the tracks were lowered and the field was extended over top of them . Bleachers were built in left field , and over time various extensions were added to the originally 