Bank of America Stadium is a football stadium located in uptown Charlotte , North Carolina . It is the home facility of the Carolina Panthers NFL franchise . It also hosts the annual Meineke Car Care Bowl which features teams from the Atlantic Coast Conference and the Big East . Before the stadium was bought by Bank of America , it was called Ericsson Staduim . The Panthers played their Inaugural Season at Clemson University 's Memorial Stadium while the stadium was being completed . The organization had considered several possible sites for the stadium 's location prior to choosing the Charlotte center city site . One was near NASCAR 's Lowes Motor Speedway and the University of North Carolina at Charlotte in northeast Mecklenburg County . Another was at the intersection of I - 85 and US - 74 in western Gaston County . A popular option was locating it near Carowinds amusement park , with the 50 yard line being on the state border of North Carolina and South Carolina . The Carolina Panthers played their first game at the stadium on September 14 , 1996 . The stadium sits on 33 acres ( 130,000 m² ) of land and has a capacity of 73,298 . Bank of America Stadium is mostly used as a football facility , though it hosted the Rolling Stones on October 10 , 1997 , and has been a site of the NCAA Men 's Soccer Championship in 1999 and 2000 . A Billy Graham crusade was held there as well . The stadium , originally known as Carolinas Stadium , opened in 1996 , as Ericsson Stadium after the Swedish telecom company purchased naming rights to the stadium . The Panthers debuted there during the 1996 NFL season . In 2004 , the stadium received its current name after Bank of America purchased the naming rights for 20 years . Since Bank of America has acquired naming rights , many fans now refer to the stadium as " The Vault " or " The Bank " . The Panthers are undefeated in playoff games at Bank of America Stadium . In 1996 , on their way to their first NFC Championship Game , they defeated the defending Super Bowl Champion Dallas Cowboys . Again they defeated the Cowboys on their way to Super Bowl XXXVIII in Houston in 2004 . Bank of America Stadium was a finalist to host the annual Atlantic Coast Conference Football Championship Game , eventually losing the first four year contract to Jacksonville 's ALLTEL Stadium . It is considered a prime candidate to reapply for the contract for the games after 2008 due to its central location in ACC territory , and the relatively mild winter climate of Charlotte . At the time of its construction in the early 90 's , the stadium was a pioneering project for the use of Personal Seat Licenses . It was the first large scale project funded and constructed in the USA using mostly PSL 's . It was the strength of PSL pledges that impressed the NFL owners and resulted in the Carolinas receiving the first new expansion team in nearly two decades . The stadium is also credited with being a major cause for the recent round of new stadium construction in the NFL . Only a decade after its construction , it already is in the oldest third of current NFL stadiums . Only nine other current NFL stadiums are older which have not received major renovations . The last two to open before the stadium broke 