Barton Hall is an on - campus field house on the campus of Cornell University in Ithaca , New York . It is the site of the school 's indoor track facilities , ROTC offices and classes , and Cornell Police . For a long time , Barton Hall was the largest unpillared room in existence . The interior of the building covers almost 2 acres , and includes a 1 / 8 mile ( 200m ) indoor track . It was built in 1914 and 1915 and was originally designed as a drill hall for the Department of Military Science . It was named for Col. Frank A. Barton , Class of 1891 . Colonel Barton was one of the first two Cornell students to receive an army commission in Cornell 's Military Science Program , and was the first ROTC commandant at Cornell from 1904 to 1908 . During WWI , Barton Hall functioned as an airplane hangar and it served the ROTC as an armory during World War II . Barton Hall now contains a 200m track , basketball courts , the Hart Memorial Library , and the Wortham Museum . After the opening of Newman Arena , the building was remodeled into a premier indoor track facility . The Recaflex track features eight 42 - inch lanes , one of the few indoor 200 - meter tracks in the country with eight such lanes . Barton also contains a throwing cage with a cement circle and crusher dust landing sector surrounded by a 25 - foot high chain link fence . The interior of the track has a Recaflex runway for the pole vault , two long and triple jump pits and multiple high jump areas . The track itself has a raised aluminum curb and a common finish line . In 1995 , Barton received another major change with the addition of the H. Hunt Bradley Track Center . The center includes a Hall of Fame / meeting room / study facility for track , an office , a library and a 1500 - square foot weight room . Barton Hall has also served as a concert venue for the Cornell Campus . It has hosted acts such as The Grateful Dead and Bob Dylan . In the Spring of 1969 members of the Afro - American Society ( AAS ) occupied Willard Straight Hall , the Cornell Student Union , in protest against judicial sanctions against several black students and to demand a black studies program . Two days after the students left Willard Straight Hall an SDS meeting became a " student takeover of Barton Hall " and the Barton Hall Community was formed . Cornell University ( 2004 - 02 - 19 ) . Cornell University ( 2006 ) . Cornell NROTC ( 2006 - 08 ) . Cornell University ( 2006 ) . 