BC Place Stadium is Canada 's first domed stadium and is the largest air - supported stadium in the world . It is located on the north side of False Creek in Vancouver , British Columbia , and home to the BC Lions of the Canadian Football League and the region 's largest consumer shows , trade shows and special events . It is owned and operated by PavCo ( BC Pavilion Corporation ) , a Crown Corporation of the government in the Province of British Columbia . BC Place is to be the host of the opening and closing ceremonies for the 2010 Winter Olympic games . The stadium , completed in 1983 , was built as part of the preparation for Expo 86 . It is the world 's largest air - supported domed stadium and can seat 60,000 in its mixture of permanent and portable light - blue plastic seats . Currently , its main sports tenant is the BC Lions of the Canadian Football League ; formerly , it was the home of the Vancouver Whitecaps of the North American Soccer League , who occupied it in the early 80s . The Whitecaps played the first sporting event in the stadium in 1983 , against the Seattle Sounders . The last NASL Soccer Bowl was also held at BC Place . The stadium hosted Grey Cup games in 1983 , 1986 , 1987 , 1990 , 1994 , 1999 , and 2005 , perhaps the most thrilling account being the one in 1994 in which the hometown Lions defeated the U.S. expansion team Baltimore Football Club on a last - second field goal , preventing the Grey Cup trophy from leaving Canada ( although Baltimore would win the Grey Cup the following year ) . In 1987 , an exhibition match of Australian rules football was played at the stadium and drew a crowd of 32,789 - a record for the largest AFL / VFL crowd outside of Australia . The stadium is to be the first Air - supported structure and the first indoor venue used for the Opening and Closing Ceremonies of the 2010 Winter Olympics . On January 5 , 2007 at approximately 12:40 PST , a tear occurred in the Teflon roof close to Gate G at the south side where the roof meets the top of the concrete bowl . Over the preceding several hours , a significant amount of wet snow settled on the dome . BC Place has a system in place to turn on a hot air system that sends hot air between the two layers of the dome to melt snow and ice . An independent preliminary report indicated that rapid pressurization of the building combined with the wind and sleet and pre - existing damage caused the tear . The tear quickly turned into a rip as the air from inside the dome quickly escaped through the widening hole . BC Place maintenance staff proceeded with an intentional , controlled deflation of the roof in order to protect the integrity of the roof 's other panels . According to its design , the deflated roof was hanging by steel cables 6 metres ( 20 feet ) above the seating and the ground . Normally , the roof has a rise of 27 metres ( 90 feet ) above the top of the bowl when inflated.Vancouver had been experiencing high winds and heavy sleet , and most initial reports attributed the tear and subsequent deflation to the weather conditions . Following the acquisition of a temporary panel 