Beaver Stadium is located on the campus of The Pennsylvania State University and is home to their college football team , the Nittany Lions . Named for James A. Beaver , a former governor of Pennsylvania and president of the University 's board of trustees , the stadium currently has a capacity of 107,282 , making it the second largest stadium in the United States , third largest stadium in North America , and the sixth largest stadium in the world , smaller than Michigan Stadium by only 219 seats . Due to its large size , Beaver Stadium is widely known as one of the toughest venues for opposing teams in collegiate athletics . Until 1893 , Penn State teams participated in sporting events on Old Main lawn , a large grassy area in front of the primary classroom building of the time . Beaver Field , a 500 - seat structure located behind the current site of the Osmond Building , was the first permanent home for Penn State 's football team , and the first game played there was a Penn State victory over Western University of Pennsylvania ( now the University of Pittsburgh ) on November 6 , 1893 . In 1909 , New Beaver Field opened just northeast of Rec Hall , roughly in the current location of the Nittany Parking deck . It served as Penn State 's stadium until 1960 , when the entire 30,000 seat stadium was dismantled and moved to the east end of campus , reassembled and expanded to 46,284 seats , and dubbed Beaver Stadium . A view of the lettering and years added to the suites in 2006 . Expansions in 1969 , 1974 and 1976 increased capacity to 60,203 . In 1978 , 16,000 seats were added when the stadium was cut into sections and raised on hydraulic lifts , allowing the insertion of seating along the inner ring of the stadium where the track had previously been located . In 1980 , maximum capacity increased to 83,770 . An expansion was completed for the 1991 football season , placing an upper deck addition over the north end zone and raising capacity to over 90,000 . A major and somewhat controversial construction project took place in 2001 , raising the stadium 's total capacity to 107,282 . An upper deck was added to the south end of the stadium , blocking the view of neighboring Mount Nittany ( which had sentimental value for some fans ) , but making Beaver Stadium the second largest stadium in the United States . In 2006 , the stadium underwent major structural and aesthetic upgrades . Old steel beams supporting the upper seats in the east , north and west were replaced and strengthened , and new railing was installed , stronger than the old railing which collapsed following the 2005 Ohio State game . The appearance of the stadium has been enhanced with the addition of large blue letters spelling out " The Pennsylvania State University " on the west - facing suites , and a list of Penn State 's undefeated , national championship , and Big Ten championship years underneath . On the opposite side of the stadium , letters spelling , " Penn State Nittany Lions " have been added to the press box , with " Beaver Stadium " running below . Nine markers depicting the various traditions of Beaver Stadium , including the Blue Band , the student section , and the blue buses which bring the team to the stadium , have been placed 