Belgrade Arena ( Serbian Cyrillic : Београдска арена , Serbian Latin : Beogradska arena ) is a large multifunctional indoor arena located in Belgrade , Serbia . It is designed as a universal hall for many sports events , including basketball , handball , volleyball , tennis , athletics , and a hall for cultural events and other programs . With the total space that covers 48,000 square metres , and a total capacity of up to 23,000 seats ( for handball events ; standard 20,000 seats ) , it is among the largest indoor arenas in Europe . Its cost is estimated at €70 million . Belgrade Arena is likely to be the host venue for the 2008 Eurovision Song Contest . In 1989 , The City of Belgrade was chosen to host the Basketball World Championship of 1994 . However , there was a condition for the city to build an all - new basketball arena . The city government immediately started a competition to find the best design of the new arena that was supposed to have a seat capacity of 20,000 . The design submitted by Belgrade architect Vlada Slavica was chosen as the best . In 1991 a location for the project was chosen – " Block 25 " in New Belgrade . However the project was already becoming problematic . There were only 3 years left to the World Championships and building this mega structure would have to be done in record time . A team of a 126 companies was formed to be part of the arena committee . Two architects were chosen to design the arena 's roof . In 1992 construction started as the arena committee formed a partnership with American company HOK that has had many experiences with building sporting objects . However , tough times were ahead . As the disintegration of Yugoslavia started , the United Nations imposed sanctions on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia ( made up of the two remaining republics at the time - Serbia and Montenegro ) and HOK stopped all co - operation with the arena committee . Even with this set back , work on the Belgrade Arena continued . In 1993 Serbia went through one of its blackest years in modern history . The country experienced record inflation rates , and as a result of the sanctions and the conflicts in Yugoslavia , Belgrade lost the right to host the 1994 Basketball World Championships . Following the formal announcement by FIBA , the arena 's construction still continued for some time , though at a considerably slower pace due to the lack of material . However , sometime in 1995 the construction completely stopped . Work on the arena re - commenced in 1998 as the city was chosen to host the world table tennis competition in 1999 to be held in the Belgrade Arena . By this time the roof was already taking shape towards completion , part of the façade was done and the interior was half complete . Once again , Yugoslavia lost the privilege to host the competition as the city was bombed by NATO forces the year the competition was supposed to be held . After a change of government in Yugoslavia in 2000 and the dropping of all sanctions imposed on the country , the Arena , under new management was completed by 2004 in time for the Diamond ball tournament and Belgrade finally got the right to host The European Basketball Championship 2005 . Temporary license for public use expired in early 2006 , 