Ben Hill Griffin Stadium at Florida Field , commonly referred to as " The Swamp " , is the American football stadium for the University of Florida college team , and is located in Gainesville , Florida . The stadium was built in 1930 as Florida Field . In 1934 , the stadium was dedicated to the memory of servicemen who died in the first World War . The stadium was renamed in 1989 in honor of citrus grower and University of Florida benefactor Ben Hill Griffin , Jr . The name of the playing surface remains Florida Field . The stadium has expanded over the years from a seating of 21,769 to its current seating capacity of more than 90,000 , making it the largest stadium in the state of Florida . The playing surface was artificial turf from 1971 through 1989 . The artificial turf was removed and natural grass was restored for the 1990 season . The Florida Gators football team , a member of the Southeastern Conference , plays all its home games at the stadium . Games played against the Georgia Bulldogs are played in Jacksonville , Florida at what is informally known as The World 's Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party ; an exception is the 1994 and 1995 home - and - home series when the Gator Bowl was being upgraded to NFL standards as Alltel Stadium , the home of the Jacksonville Jaguars . Ben Hill Griffin also hosted the 1973 Tangerine Bowl as well as the 1994 Gator Bowl between Virginia Tech and Tennessee . The stadium is best known as The Swamp , a nickname given to it by former head coach Steve Spurrier in the early 1990s . He noted that a " . . .swamp is where Gators live . We feel comfortable there , but we hope our opponents feel tentative . A swamp is hot and sticky and can be dangerous . Only Gators get out alive. " Befitting the nickname , the original stadium , which consists of the lower half of the current stadium , was built in a ravine placing the stands and playing surface entirely below ground level . Subsequent additions over the years have enclosed the playing area on all sides by high - angled stands that create a closed - in , claustrophobic feel on the field . Game - day temperatures at field level have been known to exceed 100 degrees Fahrenheit ( 37 degrees Celsius ) , which added to Florida 's normally humid climate eventually led to the creation of Gatorade as a way to combat dehydration . Every home game has been sold out since 1979 , and there is a large and loud student section along the east side of the stadium . The student section is known as the " Swamp Things " after current head coach Urban Meyer held a contest to name the section . These factors create an intimidating environment that can hinder an opposing team 's ability to hear playcalls and rattles nerves . The theme is completed by the pre - game video played shortly before the players run out on to the field that shows clips of alligators while playing the theme from Jaws and closes with the quote , " The Swamp . . .Only Gators get out alive ! " . Outside the southeast corner of the stadium . On the facade of the south endzone are painted the years of each of the team 's Southeastern Conference championships and its 1996 & 2006 National Championships . 