Bislett stadion is a sports stadium in Oslo , Norway . Bislett is Norway 's most well known sports arena internationally , with 15 speed skating world records and more than 50 track and field world records having been set here . The stadium was demolished in 2004 and construction of a new stadium was completed by the summer of 2005 . In 1999 , the American sports magazine Sports Illustrated declared that the old Bislett Stadium was one of the top 20 sports venues of the 20th century . Bislett Stadium lies on the site of a 19th century brick works , which was bought by the Municipality of Kristiania ( Oslo ) in 1898 , and turned into a sports field in 1908 . The merchant , speed skater , gymnast and sports organizer Martinus Lørdahl was instrumental in facilitating the construction of the first bleachers , begun in 1917 and completed in 1922 along with the new club house . One of the squares outside the stadium is named Martinus Lørdahl 's Square , in his honour . Bislett became Norway 's main arena for speed skating and track and field in 1940 when the architect Frode Rinnan 's new functionalistic stadium was completed , with a capacity of 20,000 . Rinnan was also responsible for the renovation of the stadium for the 1952 Winter Olympic Games in Oslo . Bislett has hosted the Bislett Games since 1965 , an annual track and field event in the IAAF Golden League . Bislett 's career as a speed skating venue ended in 1988 , when it was decided that ice production would discontinue , even though the stadium did not meet international requirements for any other sport . The stadium was quickly becoming run down and even dangerous , but it would take more than decade of debate and at times harsh bickering before the city council decided that Bislett was to be demolished and rebuilt . Especially the matter of whether or not Bislett would continue to host speed skating events provided tensions between the various parties involved , leaving nostalgics bitterly disappointed when it turned out not to be so . Speed skating has increasingly become an indoor sport and providing the famous record breaking ice would no longer be possible if the stadium was to be optimized for athletics and football . The old Bislett was appreciated for its architecture and its atmosphere , not to mention its illustrious record history , and it was perhaps then a fitting gesture that the new stadium was built in record breaking time - construction lasted only ten months . The new stadium was inaugurated with the Bislett Games on July 29 2005 . The New Bislett Stadium meets international requirements for track and field events . The running track now has eight lanes with a 37,5 m turning radius ( the previous stadium only had six lanes , forcing the Bislett Games organizers to install temporary lanes on the long stretch for the 100 m event ) . The track has received a 1st class certification by the IAAF , shared by only a handful other stadiums in Northern Europe . In addition , there is an indoor running track beneath the stands for warming up and for indoor workouts during the winter , and the construction of an underground sports hall is under consideration . The new turning radius has provided space for a 105 x 68 m football pitch , and the stadium currently meets national requirements for hosting football matches in the Norwegian Premier 