Bloomfield Road is the home of English football club Blackpool Football Club . The venue was used during the 2005 UEFA Women 's Championship after having two stands redeveloped between 2001 and 2002 , giving the ground a capacity of 11,295 . Currently there are only three stands , since the South Stand was demolished in 2003 in preparation for the construction of a new stand and the current capacity is 9,612 ( all - seated , including the temporary East Stand ) . When the stadium is complete , the new capacity should be 16,000 . The main entrance to the ground used to be on Bloomfield Road , via the now - demolished South Stand ; however , the development of the ground that began in the first few years of the 21st century meant it is now from Seasiders Way , via the Matthews Stand on the west side of the ground . This stand is on the west side of the ground and is the main stand , having the players ' tunnel and executive boxes at the rear . It is named after the Seasiders legend Sir Stanley Matthews . The club 's nickname , " Seasiders " , is spelled out by white seats . This stand is at the north end of the ground , replacing the old Spion Kop and is connected to the West Stand with a corner stand . It is named after another former player , Stan Mortensen , who is the only player in history to score a hat - trick at Wembley in an FA Cup Final . The club use both " North Stand " and " The Kop " on tickets for this stand . The abbreviation " B.F.C. " is spelled out by white seats . Pricebusters Matthews Stand , viewed from the now - demolished South Stand ( see image below ) . This holds approximately 1,800 seats . There was an incident in 2005 when Sheffield Wednesday supporters jumped up and down with this stand full and some of its middle section gave way ; however , nobody was injured . The previous 1925 main stand was demolished in 2003 . This is the stand that stood on Bloomfield Road . Its facade was painted in three strands : tangerine ( top ) , white ( middle ; along which the name BLACKPOOL FOOTBALL CLUB was attached ) and blue ( bottom ) . Currently there is a large open space closed off between the pitch and the road which is waiting to be developed into the new South Stand . In September 2006 the club announced the building of the South - West Corner of the ground , which should hold approximately 1,000 people and will be used for away support . As of March , 2007 building work has yet to commence . Building work has though begun on the hotel , on land formerly occupied by The Tangerine Night Club , which had been announced by the club was to be built at the same time as the South West Corner . The ground was originally known as Gamble 's Field in 1899 , being named after the local farmer who owned the land , when South Shore F.C. played there in the Lancashire League . When Blackpool F.C. merged with South Shore F.C. later that year , the club moved into the latter 's ground and changed the name to Bloomfield Road . At this time there was only one stand at the ground , a small structure 