BMO Field ( pronounced " bee - mo " ) is a soccer - specific stadium located in Exhibition Place in the city of Toronto . The open - air structure seats 20,183 spectators . It is owned by the City of Toronto , and managed by Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. Construction is complete , with the first soccer game played on April 28 , 2007 , a 1 - 0 loss by home side Toronto FC against the Kansas City Wizards . The stadium was part of Canada 's successful bid to host the 2007 FIFA U - 20 World Cup . The original plan was for the site to be located at York University , with the university contributing $15 million toward the cost of the new stadium . However , the university was forced to back out in May 2005 . The eventual site was moved to the location of demolished Exhibition Stadium and then - existing Sports Hall of Fame building . On May 11 , 2006 , Major League Soccer announced that Toronto FC would join the league as its thirteenth ( and first Canada - based ) team in 2007 . The league considers soccer - specific stadiums to be a critical part of its strategy ; MLS commissioner Don Garber has been adamant that expansion teams must have plans for a soccer - specific stadium in place to be granted a franchise . These facilities are thought to improve overall crowd atmosphere ( because they are smaller than stadiums built primarily for NFL football or CFL football ) , and may allow teams to control most revenues generated by their facilities . On August 31 , 2006 , the Toronto Star reported that BMO Financial Group purchased the naming rights to the stadium , known then as the National Soccer Stadium . BMO is the stock ticker symbol of the Bank of Montreal , whose operational headquarters are in Toronto . The symbol is often pronounced " BEE - mo " , as are references to the bank itself . On September 20 , 2006 , stadium webcam viewers watched as a banner was raised on the West Grandstand re - naming the stadium " BMO Field " . The name was later announced on the team 's official website . MLS 's commissioner has declared that the 2008 All - Star Game will take place at BMO Field , as well an MLS Cup by the year 2012 . Toronto FC is owned by Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. ( MLSE ) , owners of the National Hockey League 's Toronto Maple Leafs and the National Basketball Association 's Toronto Raptors . In addition , MLSE contributed towards the cost of the building of the stadium . With the total costs in the realm of $62 million ( $72 million including land ) , contributions came from multiple sources . MLSE contributed $8 million towards the construction of the stadium and $10 million towards securing the naming rights of the stadium . The Canadian Federal Government contributed $27 million , with Ontario 's government adding an additional $8 million . Toronto paid $9.8 million , and has the ownership of the stadium . BMO Field uses FieldTurf rather than one of natural grass . The turf was laid in March , 2007 . The seats are entirely red with the exception of a design on each of the main stands . On the east side , the design is a large maple leaf while on the lower west stand 