Bobby Bowden Field at Doak Campbell Stadium is the football stadium on the campus of the Florida State University in Tallahassee , Florida . It is the home venue for the university 's Seminoles football team . The stadium was named for Doak S. Campbell , a past president of the university and the field was named for head football coach Bobby Bowden . The stadium is part of the University Center complex , a mixed - use facility encompassing university office space , university classrooms , the university 's Visitor 's Center , souvenir store , The University Center Club , as well as skyboxes and press boxes for use during football games . Following the latest expansion in 2003 , the stadium has a seating capacity of 82,300 . On November 20 , 2004 , in accordance with an act of state legislation , the stadium and field were renamed Bobby Bowden Field at Doak Campbell Stadium . Doak Campbell Stadium on the official stadium dedication day . The stadium , named after former Florida State President Doak S. Campbell , hosted its first game against the Randolph - Macon College Yellowjackets on October 7 , 1950 with the Seminoles winning the game 40 - 7 . At that time the facility had a seating capacity of 15,000 . Florida State first began play at Centennial Field during the team 's inaugural 1947 season and would continue to play there for the following two years ( 1948 and 1949 ) . The stadium has expanded numerous times ; from 15,000 seats to 19,000 in 1954 , to 25,000 in 1961 and to 40,500 between the years 1960 and 1970 . Since that time , the stadium has expanded to almost 83,000 , largely in part to the success of the football team under head coach Bobby Bowden coupled with the ever growing student body . It now is the largest football stadium in the Atlantic Coast Conference ( ACC ) . Aesthetically , a brick facade surrounding the stadium matches the architectural design of most of the buildings on the university 's campus . In addition to the obvious recreational uses , The University Center surrounds the stadium and houses many of the university 's offices . A 19 foot ( 5.8 m ) tall bronze sculpture by Fritz White depicting Chief Osceola and Renegade . A tradition was immediately put in place whereby at sunset , on the night before home football games , as the Marching Chiefs play , Osceola 's spear was set aflame as students , alumni , and fans gather around the statue to show their support . The flame was later extinguished at sunrise on the morning following the game . As of March , 2006 , the university decided to light the spear for several reasons , including : selection into the NCAA basketball tournament , " National Player of the Year " awards for any sport , conference championships , graduations and convocations , etc . A small inscription near the base of the statue reads : " This statue does not depict any particular person or event . Rather , it symbolically portrays the unconquered spirit of the Seminole people of the 19th century and the timeless legacy of that spirit that continues to burn bright into the future. " . The statue was unveiled at the Williams Family Plaza on October 10 , 2003 , and " Unconquered " was engraved in its stone pedestal on September 2 , 2005 . A bronze sculpture by Edward Jonas , 