Boone Pickens Stadium , formerly known as Lewis Field , is home to the Oklahoma State University college football team . The facility is the oldest football stadium in the Big 12 Conference but was left largely neglected and enjoyed only modest renovations throughout its near - century of existence . With the resurgence of Cowboy football sparked by the 2001 victory over the Oklahoma Sooners in the annual Bedlam Series game and the subsequent 2002 Houston Bowl season , interest grew for a major overhaul of Lewis Field . An ambitious fund - raising project for the renovation dubbed " The Next Level " became the flagship effort of the Oklahoma State athletic department . Lowery Laymon Lewis , a former dean of veterinary medicine and of science and literature from Oklahoma A&M ( the name of the university until 1957 ) , was one of the most popular figures in the school’s history . In addition to his duties as dean and instructor at OAMC , Lewis served as the school 's acting president in 1914 . Under his brief administration , OAMC established the first school of commerce and marketing in the nation and developed experimental stations around the state . The school installed grandstand seats in 1920 , pushing capacity to 8,000 . The stadium originally was positioned in the traditional north - south direction , but was reoriented east - west to avoid the strong prevailing winds . It remains one of a handful of major stadiums in the United States with goals at the east and west ends . Because of this , the Sun becomes an advantage to the team defending the west end zone during sunny afternoon games , because the team defending the east goal has to look directly into the bright sunlight . The university planned to build a horseshoe - shaped stadium , similar to Ohio State University 's Ohio Stadium , in the 1920s to be called War Memorial Stadium . These plans were scrapped before any construction of the proposed stadium started , and the first addition to Lewis Field came in 1924 with the first steel and concrete portion of the current stadium built on the south side . During the 1929 - 1930 seasons , 8,000 permanent seats were built on the north side for an overall capacity of 13,000 . In 1947 the south stands were increased from 20 to 53 rows and capacity climbed to nearly 30,000 . For the first time , a permanent press box was then added . Prior to the 1950 season , 10,600 seats were added to the north stands , increasing capacity to 39,000 ( including temporary endzone bleachers ) . After the 1971 season the cinder track was removed , lowering the field 12 feet and making he space between the field and the stadium retaining walls among the smallest in college athletics . Twenty rows of permanent seats were also added to both sides of the stadium . This expansion , including complete conversion to an artificial turf playing surface , cost $2.5 million and was financed through private donations . Press box construction was completed in 1980 at a cost of $1.8 million . The press box has seating for more than 200 members of the print media , with separate levels for radio / television broadcasters , photographers and VIP seating on the first level capable of handling 300 . A lighting system for night games was installed in time for the 1985 season and cost approximately $750,000 . Lewis Field was officially 