Boothferry Park ( nicknamed Fer Ark ) was a football stadium in Kingston upon Hull , and was home to the football club Hull City for over 50 years from 31 August 1946 until December 2002 , when the club moved to a brand - new ground , the Kingston Communications Stadium.The club no longer play at the stadium , which is set for demolition , having moved to the Kingston Communications Stadium in 2002 . It 's likely that the ground will make way for a housing development , though plans are complicated by the presence of a Kwik Save and Iceland supermarkets which comprises part of the stadium 's structure . The ground was originally planned in 1929 , and work began on the site from 1932 based near the River Humber . Financial difficulties severely hampered this development , with the playing area and part of the terracing appearing over the following 12 months before work and progress ground to a halt . A proposal in 1939 for a sports stadium on the site was the catalyst for further development , as even though this threw up doubt for the original stadium plans , no suitable financial offer for the land was forthcoming , and instead the Hull City board enquired after , and were granted , a Football Association loan to the sum of £6,600 . This meant the new ground would be ready for the opening of the 1941 season . The onset of World War II was to again frustrate the development of the football ground , as during the war , the ground was used by the Home Guard , and was , for a period , used to repair tanks . This , not unexpectedly , had an adverse effect on the playing area - following the end of the war the pitch was in very poor shape and prone to waterlogging . The ground was opened in August 1946 , 17 years after its initial proposal , but only had planning permission for one stand along the west side with an upper cost limit of £17,000 . The ground was still not fully completed and it became a race against time to make the stadium ready for its inaugural match against visiting Lincoln City . Twenty Thousand people gathered to watch the opening ceremony performed by the Lord Mayor . By 1948 the attendance record had swelled to 40,179 as the stadium hosted visitors Middlesbrough in the FA Cup . The terracing embankments were raised and by February 1949 a ground and club record which still stands was hit - 55,019 turned out to watch Hull play Manchester United . Due to the overwhelming crowd , ferries had to be employed to take fans away from the ground as the streets near ' Fer Ark ' became clogged . This gave the team one of their nicknames , The Ferrymen , which can be seen as a double entendre on Boothferry Park as well . The locally famous Boothferry Halt opened in 1951 . The ground now had its own railway station , its first use being a fixture against Everton when six trains ran the football service between Paragon Station , Hull 's central railway station and Boothferry Park . At the same time , work proceeded on the covering of the North stand . The East terrace was the next to be covered , albeit with a temporary structure . This temporary structure was never replaced , and stood throughout the years of the ground . With the three 