Braly Municipal Stadium is a stadium in Florence , Alabama . It is primarily used for American football , and is the home field of the University of North Alabama Lions and the Florence High School Falcons . It also hosts the NCAA Division II national football championship game which is broadcast on ESPN . Braly Municipal Stadium is recognized across the nation as one of the finest football facilities on the college - division level . The 14,215 - seat stadium , which is the home field of the University of North Alabama , served as the site for numerous NCAA Division II playoff games before being chosen as the host stadium for the Division II National Championship game in 1986 . This year marks the 20th anniversary that Braly Municipal Stadium has hosted the event . A renovation in 1980 added 5,000 seats to Braly Stadium , and another renovation in 1998 produced an additional 1,200 seats , bringing the seating capacity to 14,215 . Braly Municipal Stadium has a playing surface that rivals any in the country . Its foundation is comprised of sand , enabling the field to withstand six inches of rain at one time without altering the footing . A $175,000 scoreboard with a message center was installed just before the 1995 season , and the 1998 renovation of the press box doubled the working press area and expanded booths for all coaches , radio and game personnel . Additional restrooms also were built , as well as new viewing booths for game administration . Braly Municipal Stadium features two ultra - modern dressing rooms , concession stands , restrooms and a three - level press box . The first level seats up to 50 sportswriters in the press room . A second level houses coaching staffs from each competing school , the public address announcer , the clock operator , the stadium manager and both home and visiting radio crews . The third floor is used by television and film crews . Other renovations from 1998 include completely new east stands that have restrooms and concession areas , additional restrooms under the west stands , and cleaning and repainting throughout the stadium . 