The Brandywell Stadium ( Irish : Tobar an Fhíoruisce1 ) is a municipal football and greyhound racing stadium located in Derry , Northern Ireland . Plan of the Brandywell complex . The stadium is situated on the Lone Moor Road just south - west of the Bogside in the Brandywell area and shares the road with another sports - ground , Celtic Park , the headquarters of the Derry GAA . The ground , which is within walking distance of the city centre , is more commonly referred to as simply , the ' Brandywell ' , and is the home of Derry City FC . The ground , as well as the stadium , features a large grass training area , a club shop , a club house , from which the club and ticket offices operate , and parking space for cars and coaches . The legal owner of the stadium is the Derry City Council , however , which , under licence , permits Derry City to make use of the grounds for training matches and the running of its various other club affairs , such as administration and the retail outlet . Plans of Derry City 's to purchase a pitch fell through after their formation due to the tight timescale between their birth in 1928 and the season 's beginning in 1929 and so the Londonderry Corporation ( now known as the Derry City Council ) was approached for the use of the Brandywell Stadium which had been used for football up until the end of the 19th century . This began an association between the club and the ground which has survived until the present day . The club are still operating under the constraints of the Honourable the Irish Society charter limitations which declare that the Brandywell must be available for the recreation of the community . In effect , the club do not have private ownership over the ground and , thus , cannot develop it by their own accord with that discretion being left to the Derry City Council . The Brandywell on match - day . Derry City 's first game at the Brandywell was against Glentoran on 22 August , 1929 . The stadium has played host to many notable matches , such as Derry City 's 1 - 0 victory IFK Göteborg on 27 July , 2006 in the UEFA Cup first qualifying round . However , current facilities for spectators and media simply cannot cope with the demand for some matches . The ground also hosted the FAI League Cup final in 2006 between Derry City and Dublin rivals , Shelbourne FC. Derry won the dramatic game after it went to a penalty shoot - out . The Brandywell Greyhound Racing Company are also tenants at the ground , and have been since the 1940s . As a local greyhound racing venue , the stadium is equipped with an ovoid running track encircling the football pitch . The dimensions of the pitch itself measure 111 yards in length by 72 yards in width . Due to health and safety regulations the stadium has a seating capacity of 2,900 for European football competitions run by UEFA , although it can accommodate 7,700 on a normal domestic match - day including those both standing and seated . For a period of 13 years , between 1972 and 1985 only greyhound meetings and junior football were held at the venue as both the police and the Irish League imposed a ban on Derry City using the stadium as their home 