Braves Field was a baseball park that formerly stood on Commonwealth Avenue in Boston , Massachusetts . The stadium was home to the Boston Braves from 1915–1952 , when the team moved to Milwaukee , Wisconsin . Significant portions of the original structure still stand in place , and make up part of the Nickerson Field sports complex . Braves Field was also known as The Bee Hive ( or National League Park , formally ) from 1936–1941 , a period during which the owners changed the nickname of the team to the Boston Bees ( the renaming of the team and stadium never took hold with the public , and were both eventually dropped ) . It did host the Major League Baseball All - Star Game during that span in 1936 , however . It was also the home of a National Football League franchise which began in 1932 and also called itself the Boston Braves for one year . The next year , the team changed its name to the Redskins and moved to Fenway Park . In 1937 the team transferred south to become the Washington Redskins . The concourse under the ballpark 's remaining seating area still exists almost exactly as it did when the Braves played there . The owner of the team at the time the stadium was built , James Gaffney , wanted to see the game played in a wide open field conducive to allowing numerous inside - the - park home runs . Thus , the stadium was built in what was , at the time , the outskirts of Boston , in a large plot . The stands were almost entirely in foul territory , leaving little in the outfield to which players could hit a home run into - with the fences over 400 feet away down the lines and nearly 500 feet to dead center , hitting the ball over the outer fences was all but impossible during the " dead ball " era . A stiff breeze coming in from center field across the Charles River further lessened any chances of seeing home runs fly out of the park . The only possible target in the outfield was a small bleacher section , which came to be known as The Jury Box after a sportswriter noticed during one slow mid - week game that there were only twelve individuals sitting in the 2,000 - seat stand . Ty Cobb visited the park and commented , " Nobody will ever hit a ball out of this park. " . In fact , it would take 10 years , and a livelier ball , before a batter hit a home run that cleared the outer wall on the fly . Meanwhile , it remained a pitchers ' park , perhaps never more so than on May 1 , 1920 , when Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher Leon Cadore and Braves pitcher Joe Oeschger locked horns for a pair of complete - game performances that went on for a still - record 26 innings . After all that work , the game ended in a 1 - 1 tie , called on account of darkness . At the advent of the lively ball era , it became clear that the fans were unhappy with Gaffney 's vision of how baseball should be played , and inner fences were built , and regularly moved , being moved in and out based on whims . The ownership of the team even went so far as to shift the entire field in a clockwise 