Historic Broken Bow Memorial Stadium has served as the home of the Broken Bow Savages , since it was constructed in 1936 by the National Youth Administration , a part of the Works Progress Administration . Memorial Stadium is also home to other events , such as local little league and middle school football contests and , beginning with the class of 2004 , once again home to Broken Bow High School 's commencement ceremony . Originally a wooden stadium with a capacity of 2,500 , the modern Memorial Stadium is constructed primarily of concrete and native rock and stands as one of the oldest and largest high school football stadiums in the state of Oklahoma . The stadium 's nickname , " Over the Mountain , " is a term attributed to the long roadtrip through the Ouachita Mountains that many teams face when having to travel to Broken Bow to play the Savages . Thanks to the contributions of the community , much of the stadium has been renovated , including the home - side press box and the new scoreboard ( updated in 2003 ) . The classic " Home of the Savages " banner that crowned the old scoreboard has now been re - painted and added to the home - side press box . Memorial Stadium has a grass playing surface , featuring the classic Broken Bow arrowhead logo at midfield . The main pressbox is located on top of the south stands on the home side at Memorial Stadium . An additional pressbox is located on top of the north stands , which serves the coaches and media for visiting teams . Due to the large support of the community for the football team , roughly half of the north stands is used for additional seating for Broken Bow fans . Metal bleachers constructed in the southwest and southeast corners of the stadium during the 2005 renovation allow for even more seating for Savage fans . Stadium improvements completed in the summer of 2005 include a fresh coat of paint , a new roof for the field house , updated electrical systems , a new east endzone camera , the addition of a new storage area , added improvements to the ladies restroom , and a new concession stand . Broken Bow players stretch before the opening game of 2006 district play . The new scoreboard at Broken Bow Memorial Stadium . The east endzone at Memorial Stadium , overlooking U.S. Route 259 . Savage Pride Marching band seating . 