Bronco Stadium is a football stadium in Boise , Idaho on the campus of Boise State University . It is primarily used for American football , and is the home field of the BSU Broncos . Since 1997 , the Humanitarian Bowl ( called the MPC Computers Bowl from 2004 - 2006 ) has been held at the stadium . It holds the distinction of being the longest - running outdoor bowl game in a cold - weather venue . Bronco Stadium is best known for its distinctive blue playing surface , the only non - green football playing surface in the NCAA.It is known as the " Smurf Bowl " to some fans because of the blue field . The stadium opened in 1970 as a replacement for the original Bronco Stadium , a small facility built in 1950 . The new stadium cost $2.2 million and originally seated 14,500 . It originally consisted of two sideline grandstands , the west having a second deck . The field was green Astroturf . In 1974 the second deck was added to the east side , bringing the capacity to 20,000 , with 2,600 temporary seats brought in for bigger games . A new green astroturf field was installed in 1978 . Bronco Stadium is also home to the only blue Astro Turf in the World . In 1986 Bronco Stadium would first install its most notable feature – the blue Astroturf ( often referred to as “Smurf Turf” ) for which it is best known . It was replaced in 1995 , as a part of a two - year major stadium expansion which brought the seating capacity to 30,000 seats , as BSU transitioned to Division I - A status ( from Division I - AA 's Big Sky Conference ) . The sideline grandstands were extended to wrap around the corners of the south end zone , along the orange - colored Ed Jacoby Track . Also added were the Allen Noble Hall of Fame Gallery and the Larry and Marianne Williams Plaza to the southwest corner . Both are attached to the Nicholson - Yanke Athletic Center , an original part of the stadium , as is the Fedrizzi Fitness Center Annex ( 1988 / 2004 ) and the Bronco Football Complex ( 2000 ) . Since the running track is still in use , the end zone seats remain temporary . The Astroturf was replaced during the summer of 2002 with blue AstroPlay , a more forgiving athletic field surface . There are many myths about the blue turf . There is an NCAA rule banning turf colors other than green , but BSU 's field is allowed to remain blue under a " grandfather clause " . In reality , the NCAA has no such rule ; any school may paint its field any color other than green if it wishes . Though painting the end zones is common , and schools have wide latitude in how to do so ( for example , Neyland Stadium 's distinctive orange and white checkerboard scheme ) , only BSU has chosen a non - green color for the field itself . Mistaking it for water , birds have flown into the blue turf . This has never been confirmed . In 2007 , Broncos coach Chris Petersen claimed to have found a dead duck on the field , though it is unclear whether or not the duck had mistaken the turf for water . As the Boise State football program saw a rise to prominence in the 