Bryce Jordan Center is a 15,261 - seat multi - purpose arena in University Park , Pennsylvania . The arena opened in 1995 and is the largest such venue between Philadelphia and Pittsburgh . It is home to the Penn State University Nittany Lions men 's and women 's basketball team and for the men , their student section , the Nittwits . It also plays host to a number of events such as music concerts , circuses , and commencement ceremonies for colleges within the university . The arena is located across the street from Beaver Stadium on Curtin Road , on the eastern part of the campus . This part of campus is home to much of the school 's athletic facilities , including the newly built Medlar Field at Lubrano Park baseball facility and Jeffrey Field soccer stadium . There is a large electronic display outside the arena which provides advertisements for future events . In March 2006 , the arena hosted first and second rounds of the NCAA Women 's Division I Basketball Championship . The arena will also host the upcoming 2007 and 2008 Pennsylvania Interscholastic Athletic Association ( PIAA ) Basketball Championships . Along with sporting events , the arena hosts concerts . Bands that have performed at the arena include Bruce Springsteen & the E Street Band , Pearl Jam , Dave Matthews Band , Toby Keith , Death Cab for Cutie , Black Eyed Peas , and many others . Parts of Aerosmith 's 1998 live album A Little South of Sanity were recorded at the Bryce Jordan Center . Lead singer Steven Tyler can be heard yelling " STATE COLLEGE " out to the audience in order to rile them up during " Love in an Elevator " . The arena also hosts numerous World Wrestling Entertainment events , including WWE RAW . The arena is named after former Penn State University president Dr. Bryce Jordan who was instrumental in acquiring the funding needed to build it . The arena is associated with the Arena Network , a marketing and scheduling group of 38 arenas . In 2007 , the Penn State Dance Marathon , commonly known as THON , was officially moved to the Bryce Jordan Center . The event , designed to raise money to fight pediatric cancer , raises millions of Dollars every year . 