Busch Stadium ( also referred to informally as New Busch Stadium or Busch Stadium III ) is the new home for the St. Louis Cardinals of the National League . It replaces Busch Memorial Stadium and occupies a portion of that stadium 's former footprint . The stadium opened on April 4 , 2006 with an exhibition between the minor league Memphis Redbirds ( AAA - Pacific Coast League ) and Springfield Cardinals ( AA - Texas League ) , both minor league affiliates of the St. Louis Cardinals , which Springfield won 5 - 3 . The official major league opening game occurred on April 10 , 2006 , as the Cardinals defeated the Milwaukee Brewers 6 - 4 . A commercial area , dubbed Ballpark Village , is being developed adjacent to the stadium over the remainder of the former stadium 's footprint . The stadium is the third stadium in the city of St. Louis to carry the name Busch Stadium . Sportsman 's Park was renamed Busch Stadium in 1953 , after team owner August Busch . After the first Busch was closed down in 1966 , both the Major League Baseball Cardinals , and the NFL 's St. Louis Cardinals got a new multi - purpose stadium , named Busch Memorial Stadium . Busch Stadium has been chosen by MLB to host the 2009 All - Star Game . In 1995 , St. Louis Cardinals team ownership began to lobby for a new ballpark in downtown St. Louis , but the team was unable to acquire funding for the project for several years . In June 2001 , the State of Missouri signed a contract with the team , proposing a ballpark in downtown St. Louis , but a subsequent funding bill was struck down in May 2002 , leaving the saga open . Team owners sought a location near Madison , Illinois , adjacent to Gateway International Raceway , until the city of St. Louis drafted a financing plan for the team to construct the new stadium in downtown St. Louis . The Stadium was financed through private bonds , bank loans , a long - term loan from St. Louis County , and money from the team owners . The development , including the Ballpark Village will cost approximately $646 million with the stadium alone costing $346 million . In its debut season every game sold out , giving a total attendance of 3,407,104 for the season , the second - largest in team history . New Busch Stadium was designed by HOK Sport and built by Hunt Construction with an estimated cost of $365 million . First , the construction of the south side of the new stadium . Second , the wrecking ball demolition of the old stadium , which began the week of November 7 , 2005 and lasted until December 8 , 2005 . Third , building the north side of the new stadium ( i.e. the left field area ) . The field level ( 16,880 seats ) , terrace level ( 9,150 ) , and bleachers ( 3,661 ) were completed in time for opening day , with total capacity on that day of 37,962 , not including up to 2,751 standing room tickets . Construction on the seating area was completed in late May increasing the capacity for the May 29 , 2006 game vs the Houston Astros with finishing touches performed throughout the year . Including all 2,886 standing - room - only tickets for the general public and the suites and party rooms , 