The Cam Henderson Center is the primary indoor athletics complex at Marshall University in Huntington , West Virginia , USA . The first basketball game played in the facility was a varsity match between Marshall and Army on November 27 , 1981 . The facility , as designed , was to be a " state of the art " arena seating 14,000 . However during construction , massive budget cuts were made and the finished product seated only 10,250 . The basketball arena currently seats 9,600.The arena was designed with a retractable lower seating section , which permitted used of the floor area for indoor track and general use by the physical education department . However this seating never worked as designed , and eventually the school stopped retracting the seating for fear it would become stuck in that position . Also the poured concrete floor developed major cracks . Its construction was a part of a deal in the West Virginia Legislature to support construction of Mountaineer Field at West Virginia University . Legislators affiliated with Marshall had opposed building such a facility unless Marshall also received an athletic facility . At the time , Marshall 's home court was the Veterans Memorial Fieldhouse , a 30 year old county - owned facility located 6 blocks from campus and seating only 6,500 . The Center was opened in 1981 , both construction of the facility did not finish until the next year . In 1996 the school , using settlement proceeds from a lawsuit against the seat manufacturer and a new state appropriation , replaced the lower section with a permanent seating section and repaired the floor , mostly ending the arena 's use for anything except basketball and volleyball , with the exception of a small annual charity tennis tournament . This reduced the seating capacity to its current level . With the decline in the men 's basketball program , many years passed since the final reconfiguration of the facility without a capacity crowd seen in Henderson Center . On February 11 , 2006 , the Center was finally filled when the men 's basketball team faced number 3 - ranked University of Memphis . The women 's basketball program - - which has become much more competitive since the 2001 arrival of coach Royce Chadwick - - has held " Jam The Cam " every year since then , resulting in attendance records for women 's basketball in the Mid - American Conference ( Marshall has since become a member of Conference USA ) and an occasional copycat event with one of the other lower - profile sports at Marshall , such as volleyball or swimming / diving . The building was merged into the existing Gullickson Hall , and contains athletic department offices , and a competitive pool for swimming in addition to the arena . 