Camp Randall Stadium is an outdoor stadium in Madison , Wisconsin . It is the current home of the Wisconsin Badgers football team , and is located on the west side of the University of Wisconsin - Madison campus . It currently seats 80,321 and is widely known as one of the premier American football venues in collegiate athletics . It is the oldest stadium and fourth largest in the Big Ten Conference . Originally , the stadium consisted of a horseshoe opening to the south , with a running track around the field . The stadium received its name because it lies on the grounds of Camp Randall , a former Union Army base during the American Civil War that was eventually absorbed by the Wisconsin campus . The camp was named after Governor Alexander Randall , who was also a United States Postmaster General . The field was originally natural grass , and was one of the first in the United States to convert to artificial turf , in 1968 . A new AstroTurf field was installed in 1990 . An artificial grass field , FieldTurf , was installed for the 2003 season . The stadium also houses athletic offices of the university . In 2002 , a large - scale reconstruction project commenced , in which luxury boxes , football program offices , and expanded seating that increased capacity . In addition , concessions , restrooms and other infrastructure items were upgraded , the walkway around the football field was removed , and new scoreboards were installed . The construction was completed prior to the start of the 2005 season . The football team continued to play at the stadium throughout the construction . The numbers of Wisconsin 's two Heisman Trophy winners , Alan Ameche and Ron Dayne , are displayed on the upper deck façade . Ameche 's number is retired ; Dayne 's is not , but has not been issued since his final season . The retired numbers of Elroy Hirsch ( 40 ) , Dave Schreiner ( 80 ) , Allan Schafer ( 83 ) , and Pat Richter ( 88 ) were added during the 2006 football season . Badger fans fill the stadium during a 2005 Michigan at Wisconsin football game . At Barry Alvarez 's final game as head coach in 2005 , plans were announced to place a statue of him in the Stadium 's Kellner Plaza . The bronze statue was unveiled on 13 October 2006 . On 17 November , it was joined by a similar statue of former UW athlete and athletic director Pat Richter . On October 30 , 1993 , the Wisconsin Badgers football team upset the Michigan Wolverines 13 - 10 . As the final gun sounded , students began to charge the field to celebrate , but were blocked by the guardrails surrounding the field . The crowd in the back , not fully aware of what was going on at the front , continued to move forward , now being aided by gravity . As a result , those up front got caught and were pressed against the rails , and then were trampled as the throng spilled onto the field . 73 students were injured , six of them critically . Several Badgers football players assisted with removing the injured from the tangle . As a result , design changes were made in the stadium which would allow the fences to break apart to prevent another situation . Concurrently , student seating , which was primarily packed into two 