Canberra Stadium ( originally known as Bruce Stadium ) is a facility primarily used for rugby league and rugby union games , located adjacent to the Australian Institute of Sport in Canberra , the capital of Australia . Bruce is the Canberra suburb where the stadium is located , and in turn Bruce was named after Stanley Bruce , Australian Prime Minister 1923 - 1929 . Capacity is a nominal all - seated 25,000 , the largest crowd being 28,753 for the 2004 Super 12 Final . The main grandstand is named after Canberra Raiders and Australian rugby league player Mal Meninga , and a statue of another Raiders and Australian league representative Laurie Daley adorns the main grandstand entrance . The eastern grandstand will be named the Gregan / Larkham Granstand on the 28th of April 2007 . The stadium is currently owned by the Australian Government through the Australian Sports Commission and leased to the Australian Capital Territory Government . While the current lease is due to expire in 2010 , the ACT Government is seeking ownership of the stadium through a land transfer with the Australian Government . Constructed in 1977 for the Pacific Conference Games , it also was the venue for the 4th IAAF World Cup in Athletics . At the latter meet , the fastest 400m for women was recorded by East German Marita Koch - a time that still stands today . The stadium has played host to several local sporting teams such as the Canberra City Arrows and Canberra Cosmos ( football ( soccer ) ) and the shortlived Canberra Bushrangers ( baseball ) . In 1990 the athletics track was removed , and the ground then became the home of the Canberra Raiders ( rugby league ) and , in 1996 , the ACT Brumbies ( rugby union ) . Further renovations occurred in 1997 in preparation for staging football matches as part of the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney , which also in turn shrank the size of the playing field preventing any future Australian Rules games being played on the field . The final cost of the renovations was more than seven times what was originally anticipated by the territory government of the time , and the subsequent controversy ended the career of then Chief Minister Kate Carnell . During the lead - up , on 29 May 2000 , unseasonal snow fell during a match between the Raiders and the Wests Tigers , the only such event in National Rugby League history , with the snow causing frost damage to the turf intended for the Olympic football tournament . In 1990 , the stadium hosted an International Rules match ( a combination of Gaelic football and Australian rules football ) between Ireland and Australia . West Coast Eagles met Fitzroy in an Australian Football League match in 1995 . Four Group Matches from the 2003 Rugby World Cup were also played at the stadium . Kanga Cup International Youth Soccer Tournament . 