Carisbrook is a major sporting venue in Dunedin , New Zealand . The city 's main sporting venue , it is an international venue for rugby union , it has also been used for other sports such as cricket soccer . Floodlit since the 1990s , it can cater for both day and night fixtures . Known locally simply as " The Brook " , it is also often known by the name " The House of Pain " , due to its solid reputation as a difficult venue for visiting teams . Located at the foot of The Glen , a steep valley , the ground is flanked by the South Island Main Trunk Railway and the Hillside Railway Workshops , two miles southwest of Dunedin city centre in the suburb of Caversham . State Highway 1 also runs close to the northern perimeter of the ground . Carisbrook was named after the estate of early colonial settler James Macandrew ( itself named after a castle in the Isle of Wight ) . Developed during the 1870s , it was first used for international cricket in 1883 , when Otago hosted a team from Tasmania . It has been hosting rugby union internationals since 1908 and full cricket internationals since 1955 . The stadium is home to the Otago rugby team in the Air New Zealand Cup and to the Highlanders Super 14 rugby team . It is the former home of Otago cricket , which moved to the University Oval at Logan Park in the north of the city after the redevelopment in the early 2000s . The ground 's capacity is around 29,000 . Until recent years , the sides of a major road overlooking the ground were known as the " Scotsman 's Grandstand " , from which a free view of the action could be easily obtained . The development of a new stand and corporate boxes on that side of the ground during the 1990s have rendered this tradition a thing of the past . Due , at least in part , to Dunedin 's sizable number of tertiary students ( 20,000 of the city 's 120,000 population ) , Carisbrook has a unique atmosphere , particularly for major games . This is also partly due to the terraces , an uncovered concrete embankment at the eastern end of the ground—reputedly the last open terracing at any major sports venue in New Zealand . The combination of students and terraces can occasionally be responsible for as much excitement and activity in the crowd as on the ground itself—on many occasions , groups ( mainly " Scarfies " , the colloquial term for University of Otago students ) on the terraces set fire to the sofas they had carried to the ground as their own comfortable terrace seating . Mexican waves are also known to become unruly , often involving previously emptied beer cans that have been " recharged " by the crowd - this is especially true when the opportunity arises to throw the cans at Australian supporters . By the beginning of the 21st century , the ground in general and the terraces in particular were under threat . The demands of modern international sport have meant that the ground needs to be significantly upgraded or replaced . On the August 9 2006 , a proposal was announced that could see the current incarnation of Carisbrook retired , and a new covered stadium built . Based in North Dunedin within the University of Otago vicinity , between Logan Park and the edge of 