The Carrier Dome is a 50,000 - seat domed sports stadium located on the campus of Syracuse University in the University Hill neighborhood of Syracuse , New York , USA . It is home to the Syracuse Orange football , basketball , and lacrosse teams . High school football championships are also held in " The Dome , " as are occasional concerts . New York 's high school indoor track and field championships have also been held at the Carrier Dome . The Dome is served by CENTRO buses and OnTrack , the latter of which has a station one block away . Shuttle buses and OnTrack trains transport fans to and from remote parking lots . It is the largest domed stadium on a college campus and the largest domed stadium in the Northeastern United States . Also , it is the largest on - campus basketball arena , with a listed capacity of 33,000 , but this limit has been easily exceeded several times . Consequently , Syracuse University 's Men 's Basketball attendance per game and for a single season are usually the highest in the nation . On March 5 , 2006 , a new basketball attendance record was set , at 33,633 , in the last regular - season game ever for Orange guard Gerry McNamara versus Villanova University . On March 19 , 2007 , a new National Invitation Tournament ( NIT ) attendance record was set , at 26,752 , in the second - round men 's basketball game against the San Diego State University Aztecs . View of the Carrier Dome in Syracuse , NY . Some notable concerts in The Dome 's past have been by Bruce Springsteen , The Police , Prince , Elton John , Frank Sinatra , Billy Joel , The Grateful Dead , Rod Stewart , U2 , Genesis , the Rolling Stones , Garth Brooks , The Who , Neil Diamond , and Pink Floyd . Each October , the dome hosts the New York State Field Band Conference marching band championships . It also hosted the 2006 New York State High School Football Championships . Billy Joel played a special sold - out concert on March 25 , 2006 to help mark the Carrier Dome 's 25th anniversary . All tickets were sold for $39.50 , the same price as his last solo appearance in Syracuse during 1998 . Towards the end of the 1970s , Syracuse University was under pressure to improve its football facilities in order to remain a Division I - A football school . Its small concrete stadium , Archbold Stadium , was seventy years old and not up to the standards of other schools . The stadium could not be expanded ; it had been reduced from 40,000 seats to 26,000 due to the fire codes . Therefore SU decided to build a new stadium , which , appropriately for Syracuse 's climate was to have a domed Teflon - coated , fiberglass inflatable roof . It would also serve as the home for the men 's basketball team , as a replacement for Manley Field House . The Carrier Dome was constructed between April , 1979 and September , 1980 . The total construction cost was $26.85 million , including a $2.75 million naming gift from the Carrier Corporation . Hueber , Hunt and Nichols , Inc. was the general contractor . It was speculated at the time that political considerations helped this project advance . The State of New York provided a $15 million grant in 1978 