Celtic Park is a football stadium in the Parkhead area of Glasgow in Scotland . It is the home ground of Celtic Football Club . The all - seater stadium is also known as ' Parkhead ' and nicknamed ' Paradise ' by Celtic fans . It is the second - largest stadium in Scotland ( after Murrayfield ) and the second - largest club football stadium in the UK ( after Old Trafford ) , with a capacity of 60,832 . Celtic moved from the original Celtic Park to the present ground in 1892 . The main stand was designed by Archibald Leitch , the architect who also designed stadiums for Rangers , Hearts , Sunderland and Everton , amongst others . The stadium has undergone numerous redevelopments ; in 1988 , Celtic 's centenary year , the red - bricked exterior to the main stand was added and in the mid 1990s , further development was undertaken to make the stadium comply with the Taylor report . Now the stands completely encircle the pitch and the stadium consists of a large double - tiered stand which extends around three - quarters of the pitch and a lower double - tier main stand , which contains the Celtic museum . There are two large screens inside the ground for showing highlights and replays on matchdays . In 2004 , Celtic announced they were making improvements which were " part of the Club’s Five Year Stadium Refurbishment Plan and will ensure that we remain on track to achieve UEFA 's five star stadium status. " . The Jock Stein Stand , at the west end of the stadium , is the traditional ' Celtic End ' . Away fans are normally accommodated in part of the Lisbon Lions Stand . The North Stand , on the site of the old enclosure known as The Jungle , can house a further 26,970 fans , and the South or Main Stand holds 7,850 . The North Stand alone has a greater capacity than 10 of the stadiums used in the Scottish Premier League and , in 2006 - 2007 , five of those in the English Premiership . The full capacity of the stadium is rarely reached in club matches because of the need for some segregation of the fans . In 1938 Celtic Park saw its largest attendance of 92,000 when Celtic played a First Division match against Rangers . This official figure is almost certainly inflated ; the actual attendance was probably around 83,500 . During the 1990s , while the National Stadium at Hampden Park was undergoing redevelopment , Celtic Park hosted a number of cup finals , most recently hosting the Scottish Cup final of 1998 , and Scotland internationals . In 2002 Celtic Park took 59.9 % of the votes in a BBC Radio Five Live poll to find the UK 's favourite sporting venue , out - polling the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff and Lord 's Cricket Ground in London . The stadium is located about 2 miles east of the city centre . 