The Charlotte Coliseum was a multi - purpose sports and entertainment arena in Charlotte , North Carolina . It was operated by the Charlotte Coliseum Authority , which also oversees the operation of Cricket Arena , the Charlotte Convention Center , and Ovens Auditorium . It no longer hosts events . It hosted its final NBA basketball game on October 26 , 2005 , a preseason game between the Charlotte Bobcats and the Indiana Pacers . The first concert hosted was Frank Sinatra . The final performance in the Coliseum was by Rick Sammons . The city of Charlotte sold the property , and the building is in the process of being gutted out to be demolished via implosion on June 3 , 2007 . A mixed - use development is planned for the space once demolition is complete . Construction on the Charlotte Coliseum began in 1986 and was opened in 1988 , approximately one year after the inception of the Charlotte Hornets . At the time the venue was seen as state - of - the - art , complete with luxury boxes and a large eight - sided video scoreboard . On the morning of the day the Coliseum was to host its first event , the multi - million dollar scoreboard was being repositioned when it struck the ceiling and crashed to the floor , destroying both it and the basketball court it landed on ( an alternate floor was brought from Cricket Arena in time for the game that night ) . When the Hornets made their NBA debut in November of 1988 the Charlotte Coliseum was the largest venue in the league , seating nearly 24,000 fans . The Hornets would go on to lead the NBA in attendance over the course of their first few seasons playing in " The Hive , " but poorly - received decisions made by Hornets team owner George Shinn caused fan support to dwindle , and by the time the Hornets relocated to New Orleans in 2002 , the Hornets ' attendance had dropped to dead last in the 29 - team league . By then the once - sparkling Coliseum was seen by many as outdated and no longer suitable to be the home of a major professional sports team . The arena was also used for a variety of collegiate basketball events . The Coliseum hosted the 1994 Men 's Final Four and the 1996 Women 's Final Four ( both jointly hosted by Davidson College and UNC Charlotte ) , in addition to many NCAA Tournament regionals , sub - regionals , eight ACC men 's basketball tournaments and the 1989 Sun Belt Conference men’s basketball tournament . It also hosted the 1991 NBA All - Star Game . It was also the site of WWE Unforgiven 1999 and WWE Judgment Day 2003 . This was actually the second building to use the name " Charlotte Coliseum " ; Cricket Arena , located on Independence Boulevard , originally opened as the Coliseum , and it shared the same features as the " new " Coliseum , including its famous domed roof . Although the Hornets were the primary tenants of the Coliseum , many other teams called The Hive home . The Charlotte Sting of the WNBA began play in the Coliseum upon their inception in 1997 , but had moved to Charlotte Bobcats Arena before the Sting folded in early 2007 . The Charlotte 49ers of the NCAA played in the Coliseum during their final days in the Sun Belt Conference from 1988 