Charlotte Bobcats Arena ( also known locally as The Uptown Arena or , for short , " Bobcats " ) is an 18,500 - seat entertainment and sports venue located in the Uptown area of Charlotte , North Carolina . Its primary use is as the home court of the Charlotte Bobcats of the NBA . It made its grand opening in October of 2005 for a concert by The Rolling Stones and hosted its first Bobcats game on November 5 , 2005 . The arena 's center - hung Daktronics video screens measure 16 feet by 28 feet , making them the largest of any indoor arena . When the Charlotte Checkers are playing home games , the arena is referred to as St. Lawrence Homes Home Ice . Though the arena was constructed with the Bobcats in mind , the arena hosts many types of sports and entertainment events . As North Carolina is a hotbed for college basketball , it is expected that the arena will host many NCAA basketball games ; indeed , the venue has already been chosen as a men 's regional site for the 2008 NCAA Tournament , and the Charlotte 49ers have tentatively agreed to play several high - profile games there over the next several seasons . The 2008 ACC men 's basketball tournament will be played there too . The Charlotte Checkers of the ECHL vacated historic Cricket Arena to play in the new arena in the fall of 2005 . The Charlotte Sting of the WNBA moved , along with the Bobcats , from the old Charlotte Coliseum to the new venue in 2005 and played for one season and then folded due to low attendance . The NASCAR Nextel All - Star Pit Crew Challenge , part of the NASCAR Nextel All - Star Challenge , is held on the Wednesday night of the race week at the arena , creating an indoor atmosphere so the pit competition will occur , rain or shine . Charlotte Bobcats Arena is used for more than just sporting events , with musical acts , family productions , and many other large entertainment performances such as concerts and circuses . In 2001 , a non - binding public referendum for an Arts package , which included money to build the new uptown arena , was placed on the ballot for voters . This was done in order to demonstrate what was believed to be wide public support for construction of a new uptown venue . The Arts package would be funded with the issuance of bonds by the city . The referendum failed after extensive opposition , leading to the departure of the original NBA franchise , the Charlotte Hornets . Owner George Shinn relocated the Hornets to New Orleans when the city would not fund a new facility for them . In 2002 a proposal was finally approved by the city , despite the failure of the arena referendum to obtain voter approval , which would finance construction of the arena . The NBA immediately awarded Charlotte a new franchise under the ownership of Bob Johnson , who at the time had created and owned the BET television network . Ground was broken on the new arena in July 2003 , with a grand opening date set for October 2005 for the new home of the NBA 's Charlotte Bobcats . As of 2005 , the total cost of the arena to Charlotte and Mecklenburg County was not known , but estimated at around $260 million . The construction was approved 