Chase Field , also known as The BOB ( after its original name , Bank One Ballpark ) , is a stadium located in Phoenix , Arizona across the street from the US Airways Center , which is used by many local teams including the NBA 's Phoenix Suns . Chase Field 's main concern is with baseball , being home of the National League 's Arizona Diamondbacks . Starting in 2006 , Chase Field also became home to the annual Challenge at Chase , a baseball game between in - state and Pac - 10 rivals Arizona State University and the University of Arizona . Construction on the park began in 1996 , and was finished just before the Diamondbacks ' first season began , in 1998 . It was only the second MLB stadium at the time to have a retractable roof ( after Toronto 's SkyDome ; others are now in Houston , Milwaukee , and Seattle ) . It was also the first ballpark to feature natural grass in a retractable roof stadium . Chase Field also has a swimming pool , located in right center field , which is rented to patrons , who wish to take a dip during a game . The ballpark also features a dirt strip between home plate and the pitcher 's mound , one of only two current ballparks to do so ( Comerica Park in Detroit is the other ) . It hosted Games 1 , 2 , 6 , and 7 of the 2001 World Series between the Arizona Diamondbacks and the New York Yankees . The Diamondbacks , who won all four games at The BOB , won the world championship that year in dramatic fashion . With the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth inning of game seven , D - Backs outfielder Luis Gonzalez sent a bloop single over the head of Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter to score the game winning run from third base . The Diamondbacks overcame Yankees pitcher Mariano Rivera , arguably one of the greatest postseason closers of all time , to claim the state of Arizona 's first major league professional championship . George W. Bush used the stadium for a post - debate supporters rally in October 2004 , during the Presidential Election . Chase Field was originally named Bank One Ballpark after Bank One of Chicago , giving rise to its nickname ( " The BOB " ) . After Bank One merged with New York - based Chase , the name change was announced on September 23 , 2005 . In March 2006 , Chase Field played host to three first - round games of the World Baseball Classic . Bank One Ballpark ( as it was then known ) configured for football during the 2003 Insight Bowl . The stadium was once the home of the Insight Bowl , a college football bowl game from 2001 - 2005 . In 2006 , the bowl game moved to Sun Devil Stadium , to replace the Fiesta Bowl , which moved to University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale . The football configuration was notable because of the lack of nets behind the goalposts and the dugout behind the south end zone . The final Insight Bowl played at Chase was between the home town , Arizona State Sun Devils and the Rutgers Scarlet Knights . Arizona State won the game in a shoot - out , 45 - 40 before a near capacity crowd . The stadium also hosts occasional concerts and international soccer games 