Citizens Bank Park is a 43,647 - seat baseball - only stadium in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania that opened on April 3 , 2004 and hosted its first regular season baseball game on April 12 of that same year , as the tennants of the facility , the Philadelphia Phillies lost to the Cincinnati Reds , 4 - 1 . The ballpark was built to replace the now - demolished Veterans Stadium ( a football / baseball multipurpose facility ) , and features natural grass and dirt playing field and boasts many Philadelphia style food stands , including cheesesteaks , hoagies , and other regional specialties . Behind center field is Ashburn Alley , named after Phillies great center fielder and Hall of Famer Richie Ashburn , a walkway featuring restaurants and memorabilia from Phillies history , along with a restaurant / bar and grille called " Harry The K 's " named after Hall of Fame broadcaster Harry Kalas . This area opens two - and - a - half hours before the scheduled first pitch , much like Eutaw Street at Oriole Park at Camden Yards via the Left Field Gate , except on Opening Day , when all gates open three hours before the scheduled first pitch . In 1998 , the Phillies and the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football League joined their western Pennsylvania counterparts , the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Pittsburgh Steelers in making requests to replace both Veterans Stadium and Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh with separate stadiums , much of which came after a railing collapsed at The Vet during the Army - Navy Game , injuring eight cadets . The Pirates had also made strong threats in 1997 about moving from Pittsburgh , forcing the issue at the state level . The state legislature approved funding for the four proposed stadiums . While Allegheny County and the City of Pittsburgh approved the pacts rather swiftly , due to plans already being in place at the time of legislative approval , bickering in Philadelphia 's political arena and debate carried on as Pittsburgh opened their stadiums ( PNC Park for the Pirates and Heinz Field for the Steelers ) in 2001 . The Eagles agreed to a site slightly southeast of Veterans Stadium , which would become Lincoln Financial Field . The " Linc " was built on the site of an old food warehouse and celebrated its grand opening in August 2003 . Significant concern has been raised about cities ( taxpayers ) funding / subsidizing private businesses ; yet another expression of " corporate welfare " , in which multi - million dollar corporations request financial assistance from various government institutions to carry out their operations . Indeed , corporations even blackmail government officials with leaving the area ( it does n't matter the length of the relationship between the city and the corporation ) , as illustrated by the threats of these teams of leaving their respective cities . The Phillies originally wanted a downtown ballpark much like those in Baltimore , Denver , Cincinnati , Cleveland or San Francisco . Various locations were proposed , initially at Broad and Spring Garden streets , Spring Garden and Delaware Avenue and next to 30th Street Station , where the main post office is located . The team and City announced that the site would be at 13th and Vine streets , just north of Interstate 676 , an easy walk from downtown and a great view of the skyline . There was considerable support for a downtown ball park from business 