Citi Field will be the new Major League Baseball stadium for the New York Mets that is being built in Willets Point in the New York City borough of Queens as a replacement for Shea Stadium , which was constructed in 1964 adjacent to the site of the 1964 World 's Fair . It has been designed by HOK Sport . The original plans for what will now be Citi Field were created as part of the New York City 2012 Olympic bid . After plans for a West Side Stadium fell through , New York looked for an alternate stadium to host the opening and closing ceremonies . The Olympic stadium project was estimated to cost $2.2 billion with $180 million provided by New York City and New York State . If New York had won the bid , the stadium would have been expanded to host the opening and closing ceremonies , as well as other sporting events , and the Mets would have played their baseball season at New Yankee Stadium . Citi Field will be built despite New York 's loss of the Games to London 's bid . The location of the stadium was slightly altered and it can no longer be expanded into an Olympic stadium should New York win a future bid . The new stadium is planned to have a capacity of 45,000 and have an exterior facade reminiscent of Ebbets Field ( a feature also at Coors Field and Safeco Field , which was long sought by owner Fred Wilpon , a Brooklyn native ) with an interior that many have stated evokes design features of recent ballparks , most notably Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore . The projected cost of the new stadium and other infrastructure improvements is $610 million , with the Mets picking up $420 million of that amount . The agreement includes a 40 - year lease that will keep the Mets in New York until 2049 . The stadium will be accessible via the Long Island Rail Road ( Shea Stadium station ) and the New York City Subway 7 train ( Willets Point - Shea Stadium station ) , as the current facility is . On March 18 2006 , the New York Mets unveiled the official model for the new stadium . By July 2006 , initial construction of the new park was underway in the parking lot beyond left - field , with a hopeful finish in time for Opening Day 2009 in late March of that year . This stadium would be the third stadium which the Mets would call home during their nearly 50 year history . The Mets played the 1962 and 1963 seasons at the Polo Grounds , which had also been the home of the New York Yankees and New York Giants . In 1964 , they moved to their current home , Shea Stadium , which in the recent frenzy of ballpark building , is now the sixth - oldest stadium in the MLB , and the fourth - oldest in the National League . On November 13 2006 , it was officially announced that the stadium would be called Citi Field , named for Citigroup Inc. Citigroup will be paying $20 million a year for the naming rights to the park over the next 20 years . This made Citi Field the second major league sports venue in the area ( after Continental Airlines Arena in New Jersey , but preceding Prudential Center in Newark and Barclays Center at Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn ) 