The City of Manchester Stadium ( also known as COMS or Eastlands ) is a sports venue in Manchester , England . Originally designed as part of Manchester 's failed bid for the 2000 Summer Olympics , the stadium was built for the 2002 Commonwealth Games at a cost of GB£110 million . After the Games , it was converted for use as a football ground , and became the home of Manchester City F.C. who moved there from Maine Road in 2003 , signing a 250 - year lease . The stadium is bowl - shaped , with two tiers all the way around the ground and a third tier along the two side stands . As of 21 April 2007 , it is the fourth largest stadium in the FA Premier League and tenth largest in the United Kingdom with a seating capacity of 47,726 . On 4 October 2006 it was announced that the stadium will host the 2008 UEFA Cup Final . Plans to build a stadium in east Manchester were first formulated as part of the city 's bid to host the 2000 Summer Olympics , with Manchester City Council commissioning a design for an 80,000 capacity stadium on a brownfield site known colloquially as Eastlands . However , in October 1993 the games were awarded to Sydney , Australia . Manchester subsequently made a successful bid to host the 2002 Commonwealth Games , using the stadium plans from the Olympic bid . In 1996 , the planned stadium competed with Wembley Stadium to gain funding to become the national stadium but the money was used to redevelop Wembley.The stadium 's foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister Tony Blair in December 1999 , and construction began in January 2000 . The stadium was designed by Arup and constructed by Laing at a cost of approximately £110 million , £77 million of which was provided by Sport England , with the remainder funded by Manchester City Council . For the Commonwealth Games the stadium featured a single lower tier running around three sides of the athletics track , and second tiers to the two sides , with an open - air temporary stand at one end . The first public event at the stadium was the opening ceremony of the 2002 Commonwealth Games on 25 July 2002 . Among the dignitaries present at the ceremony was Queen Elizabeth II . During the ten days of competition , the stadium hosted all athletics events and the rugby sevens . Four Commonwealth records were set at the stadium , including the women 's triple jump and the womens 's 5000 m . After the Commonwealth Games , extensive work was carried out on the stadium to convert it for use as a football stadium . Following the success of athletics events at the Commonwealth Games , the decision to convert the stadium into a football venue received criticism from athletics figures such as Jonathan Edwards and Sebastian Coe , but redevelopment was deemed necessary to give the venue a financially viable long - term future . The track was removed and relaid at other athletics venues , and the ground level was lowered to make way for an additional tier of seating . The temporary stand was dismantled , and replaced with a permanent structure of similar design to the opposite end . This extensive work took a year and added 12,000 seats . Manchester City F.C. moved to the new ground for the 2003 - 04 season . The conversion cost £35 million , which was 