It is the home of the Cleveland Browns NFL franchise . The stadium sits on 31 acres ( 13 ha ) of land on the shores of Lake Erie and has a capacity of at least 73,200 . The normal use of Cleveland Browns Stadium is only for football ; however , the stadium was built with a playing surface large enough to allow it to host international soccer matches . Cleveland Browns Stadium sits on the former site of Cleveland Municipal Stadium , which housed the Browns before owner Art Modell moved the team to Baltimore to become the Ravens . As part of the deal that brought a " new " Browns team to Cleveland , the city of Cleveland tore down Cleveland Stadium after the 1996 NFL season to make room for the new facility . Debris from the former stadium was submerged in Lake Erie and now serves as an artificial reef . Ground was broken on May 15 , 1997 , the stadium opened in July 1999 , and the resurrected Browns debuted there in the 1999 NFL season . The stadium also hosts the annual Ohio Classic college football game . The city chose not to sell the naming rights to the stadium itself ; this is very unorthodox for major American stadiums built in recent years . However , the naming rights to all four of the facility 's gates were sold . The names of the gates are Cleveland Clinic Sports Health Gate located in the Southwest corner , National City Gate located in the Southeast corner , STERIS Gate located in the Northeast corner , and FirstEnergy Gate is located in the Northwest corner of the stadium . The stadium is also home to the notorious " Dawg Pound " , a section of bleacher seats whose occupants are commonly regarded as some of the most passionate in football . The West 3rd Street station of Cleveland 's Waterfront light rail line serves the stadium . A major criticism of the facility is that over a quarter of a billion dollars was spent on a venue that is only guaranteed to be used for ten events each year ( eight regular season and two preseason football games ) . Many civic leaders in Cleveland contend that a domed stadium , constructed closer to the central business district , could have doubled as a much needed replacement for the aging , cramped Cleveland Public Auditorium and Convention Center . The group pushed for a new retractable roof to be added to the existing stadium , since it is considered highly unlikely that the NFL would award the game to an open venue in a cold weather city such as Cleveland . Additionally , the land on which Cleveland Browns Stadium now sits could have been used to further develop the underutilized Lake Erie shoreline for residential and business purposes . 