Cleveland Stadium ( also known as Lakefront Stadium , Municipal Stadium , Cleveland Municipal Stadium , and derisively as " The Mistake by the Lake " ) was a baseball and American football stadium located in Cleveland , Ohio . The stadium sat 78,000 for both football and baseball - though as many as 86,000 crowded in for some games . Built under the watch of city managers William R. Hopkins and Daniel E. Morgan , it was designed by the architecture firm of Walker and Weeks and Osborn Engineering , and featured an early use of structural aluminum . The Donald Gray Gardens were installed on the stadium 's north side in 1936 as part of the Great Lakes Exposition . The stadium was opened on July 1 , 1931 , and hosted a heavyweight boxing match between Max Schmeling and Young Stribling two days later . Local lore - apparently incorrect - states that the stadium was built in a failed bid to attract the 1932 Summer Olympics , which went to Los Angeles . Rather , it was apparently built to host high school and college football games and for the Cleveland Indians . The Indians played night and weekend games at the stadium from 1932 through 1946 - still playing weekday games at League Park , which lacked lights - and then all of their games from then until the beginning of the 1994 season , when the team moved to Jacobs Field . The stadium was so cavernous due to the dual setup for baseball and football that an inner fence was constructed in 1947 to cut down the size of the field . No player ever hit a home run into the center field bleachers , nearly 480 feet away . According to his own autobiography , Veeck - As in Wreck , Indians ' owner Bill Veeck would move the fence in or out , varying by as much as 15 feet , depending on how it would favor the Indians , a practice that ended when the American League specifically legislated against moving fences during the course of a given season . The facility , located just across the street from Lake Erie , was known for the biting cold winds that would blow into the stadium in winter and , for that matter , during much of the spring and fall . Hot summer nights would compensate by attracting swarms of midges and mayflies . In its later years it was known as the " Mistake On The Lake , " and came in for its fair share of lampoonings in an age when the entire city of Cleveland was ridiculed . The facility , however , had its glorious and humorous moments . In 1948 , the Indians won the American League pennant and World Series behind pitcher Bob Feller and shortstop / player - manager Lou Boudreau . In 1949 , after the Indians lost the pennant to the New York Yankees , they buried their 1948 flag in the outfield . In 1954 the Indians again won the American League pennant , winning a then - record 111 games , under manager Al Lopez and behind an outstanding pitching staff led by Bob Lemon . They were swept , however , by the New York Giants in the World Series . On four separate occasions , it hosted the 1935 , 1954 , 1963 and 1981 All - Star Games . On its last day as home of the Indians on October 3 , 1993 , the team 