The Colonial Center is a multi - purpose arena in Columbia , South Carolina , primarily home to the University of South Carolina men 's and women 's basketball teams . Opened in 2002 as a replacement for the Carolina Coliseum , the 18,000 seat arena is also host various events like conferences , concerts , and graduation ceremonies throughout the year . It is the largest arena in the state of South Carolina and the tenth largest college arena . The naming rights are held by Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company of Columbia , a subsidiary of Chattanooga , Tennessee - based insurance company Unum . The arena floor of the Colonial Center . The arena first opened on November 22 , 2002 with the season opener of the South Carolina women 's basketball team . A sell - out crowd of 17,712 fans saw the 72 - 58 Gamecocks victory over in - state rival Clemson , with a one - dollar admission charge , commonly used by the women 's basketball team to promote major games . The official grand opening took place December 2 , 2002 . The men 's basketball team defeated Temple 66 - 47 . Aside from Gamecock basketball , the Colonial Center also hosts the South Carolina High School Basketball Championships each year . The facility is built to also host ice hockey games , but because of legal issues with the funding for the facility , has yet to host one . The Colonial Center was ranked 22nd in the world in ticket sales in 2003 . It was also ranked the # 1 arena in the Carolinas and was the # 2 rated university arena in the world in 2005 , based on ticket sales for touring shows . It is managed by Global Spectrum , whose Philadelphia 76ers played an exhibition game in the venue in October 2005 . Ticketing is provided by New Era Tickets , and tickets can be purchased through the Center 's web site . The venue was built to host future NCAA Men 's and Women 's Basketball Tournament games , but before the venue opened , it was banned from such use by the NCAA under a policy , enacted shortly before construction began , banning venues in South Carolina and Mississippi from hosting such events under recommendations from the NAACP . The NAACP and several other groups objected to South Carolina hosting NCAA tournament games because of a Confederate battle flag on a soldiers ' memorial nearby on the South Carolina Statehouse grounds . The arena has been criticized for being too large for Gamecock basketball . While some non - conference games attract no more than 12,000 , over 15,000 typically show up for SEC games , including several 17,500 + crowds , and sellouts annually for Kentucky , and the biennial game against Clemson . The basketball program won the 2005 and 2006 National Invitational Tournaments . Other events held at the Center have included Disney on Ice , Sesame Street , American Idols Live ! , and Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey Circus . Some of the arists that have performed in the Colonial Center so far are Bruce Springsteen & The E Street Band ( first artist to perform at venue ) , Britney Spears , Cher , Billy Joel and Elton John among others . The University of South Carolina holds most of its commencement exercises in the Colonial Center . The first commencement speaker for ceremonies at the Colonial Center was President George W. 