Convocation Center is a 13,080 - seat multi - purpose arena that is home to the Ohio Bobcats basketball , volleyball , and wrestling teams . The first men 's basketball game in the arena featured an 80 - 70 Ohio victory over the Indiana Hoosiers on December 3 , 1968 . The Convocation Center , affectionately called " The Convo " , was designed by Brubaker and Brandt Architects of Columbus , Ohio and built by Knowlton Construction Company of Bellefontaine , Ohio . The arena houses offices for the Ohio Athletics Department numerous coaches ' offices , team locker rooms , and athletic training rooms . Over the years , numerous renovations have allowed the Convo to become one of the best facilities in the Mid - American Conference and Division I. In 1997 , improved lighting , an expanded press row , and a wider camera deck were added to the arena . Also , The Vern and Marion Alden Basketball Suite which houses offices and meeting rooms for Ohio men 's and women 's basketball was completed . A few years later , the locker rooms for both basketball teams were expanded and given new furniture , carpeting , and individual wooden lockers . Following the 2004 season , more renovations occurred as a new playing surface was installed and two large Daktronics video boards were added to the venue . The O - Zone is considered to be among the best student cheering sections in the MAC . The Convocation Center 's atmosphere is one of the finest in all of college basketball and has helped the Bobcats to win over 75 % of their home games since the opening of The Convo in 1968 . At the beginning of the 2001 - 2002 season , a new student cheering section , dubbed the " O - Zone " , was started for men 's basketball games . Almost always filled for every game , the O - Zone is considered to be the best student section in the Mid - American Conference and among the best in the nation . One of their trademark cheers , simply referred to as " Winning Team , Losing Team " , has earned a place among the most well - known chants in the game . The Convocation Center brought in its largest crowd on February 28 , 1970 , when 14,102 fans were in attendance to watch the Bobcats men 's basketball team defeat the Bowling Green Falcons 77 - 76 . That year Ohio finished 20 - 5 , winning the Mid - American Conference and advancing to the NCAA Tournament . In addition to Ohio basketball , volleyball , and wrestling contests , the Convo hosts numerous other events annually . The facility has held local high school basketball games as well as high school state tournament games . In addition , the Convocation Center has hosted a variety of concerts and special university events , most notably Ohio University 's graduation ceremonies . 