Credit Union Centre , formerly known as Saskatchewan Place or SaskPlace , is an arena located in Saskatoon , Saskatchewan , Canada . Situated near the city 's northern entrance , the facility opened in February , 1988 with a seating capacity of around 7,800 . It was expanded to 11,300 for the World Junior Hockey Championships in 1991 . It currently can seat around 11,300 for hockey games and 13,000 for concerts . It is the home venue of the Saskatoon Blades hockey team . It has free parking on site with parking space for 4,000 cars on its property . For most publicly attended events , transit service is offered from downtown . For high attendance events extra transit links are offered from shopping centres and other locations . The Credit Union Centre has hosted performances by many leading acts and has been the site of numerous national and international events . In 1995 , Billy Graham made a surprise appearance at a Franklin Graham festival , and brought George Beverly Shea with him . In 2005 , it was the site of the main concert celebrating Saskatchewan 's 100th anniversary as a province of Canada . The performance was attended by Queen Elizabeth II , Queen of Canada and the Duke of Edinburgh . SaskPlace was constructed as a replacement for the Saskatoon Arena , a wooden building constructed in Saskatoon 's downtown core in the 1930s , and which was in use until 1988 , hosting its final hockey game only a week before SaskPlace opened . Nicknamed " The Barn " , the facility had outlived its usefulness some 20 years earlier and had become infamous for leaky roofs and substandard amenities , yet Saskatonians were hesitant to lose the landmark and a number of years passed between the 1970s proposal to replace the structure and the eventual demolition of the Arena and the opening of SaskPlace . In 1982 , Bill Hunter , a local sports promoter , attempted to purchase the St. Louis Blues NHL team and bring it to Saskatoon . Part of his plan included building an 18,000 - seat arena . Two locations were suggested : the site of a decommissioned power plant downtown , just west of the then - present Saskatoon Arena , and another site east of the city 's airport . Despire Hunter 's best efforts , the NHL rejected his offer and Hunter 's plans to relocate an NHL team and build a new arena collapsed . The site eventually chosen for SaskPlace / Credit Union Centre was initially unpopular with Saskatoon residents . Situated in a remote industrial park at the north end of the city , accessible only via highways , SaskPlace was accused of being too inconvenient for seniors and people of limited transportation to access , as opposed to the original downtown arena site which was close to most bus routes . The city 's original plan was to relocate Saskatoon 's exhibition grounds alongside SaskPlace as well , but this proposal was defeated in a civic plebiscite following public protest over access and safety concerns . Plans to build interchanges on the two major access routes into the facility were announced soon after the arena opened , but as of 2006 construction has yet to occur . In the early 2000s , Saunders Avenue , which is a street leading into the parking lot of Credit Union Centre , was renamed Bill Hunter Avenue in honour of Bill Hunter , who died in 2002 . This was considered ironic by 