Crosley Field was a Major League Baseball park located in Cincinnati , Ohio . It was the home field of the National League 's Cincinnati Reds franchise from 1912 to 1970 . Built during the winter of 1911 and 1912 , the park , whose original name was " Redland Field " , was used by the Reds until June 26 , 1970 . It was succeeded by the now - demolished Riverfront Stadium . Aerial view of Crosley Field c. 1970 . Dating back to 1884 , the Cincinnati Reds played their home games in several parks located at the intersection of Findlay Street and Western Avenue in Cincinnati 's west end after moving there from the Bank Street Grounds , located less than a mile to the northeast . National League Park was the first facility built on the Findlay and Western site and was so named because then - owner August " Garry " Herrmann refused to have his name attached to the name of the new facility . Over the course of several years , the position of the diamond and the grandstand were shifted several times . Initially they were at the southwest corner , tucked into the angling intersection . In the 1890s , a new grandstand was built in the southwest corner , and the diamond was shifted , but the old grandstand was retained as bleachers . This was a good thing , because when the new stands burned , the diamond was relocated and the old stands again became the grandstand , albeit temporarily . A concrete , fireproof structure was then built in the southwest corner , in a style reminiscent of Chicago 's World 's Columbian Exposition of 1893 , although the old 1884 structure was again retained as bleachers . In 1893 , the park was columned , expanded , and renamed Palace of the Fans . The Palace was heavily influenced by Roman architecture and featured an extravagant facade and opera - style private boxes . In 1911 , fire again destroyed the park . The striking ( but totally inadequate ) Palace was destroyed . Reds ownership decided to make the next park more utilitarian . Redland Field , whose name was a reference to the Reds ' name and color , was quickly built for $225,000 by Harry Hake architects . It was one of many classic steel and concrete ballparks constructed during the first ballpark boom era of 1909 - 1923 . Chicago 's Wrigley Field and Boston 's Fenway Park were also built during this era and remain in use to today . Throughout its history , Redland / Crosley Field was usually among the smallest parks in either the National or American leagues . It accommodated 25,000 fans in 1912 ; even at its peak , it never exceeded 30,000 seats , excluding temporary seating areas created for opening day and World Series games . Contributing to this was the fact that there were no bleachers in left or center fields ; all outfield seating ( about 4,500 seats ) , were in the semi - trapezoid - shaped right field stands that became known as the " Sun Deck " ( or , in the case of night games , the " Moon Deck " ) . Groundskeeper Mathias " Matty " Schwab , who was hired in 1894 had the sod laid just in time for the Reds ' first game at the new park , April 11 , 1912 . In the game , the Reds rallied from a 