Dairy Farmers Stadium is a rugby league sports stadium situated in Thuringowa , Queensland , Australia . It is the home ground of the National Rugby League club the North Queensland Cowboys . For sponsorship reasons , the stadium was previously known as Stockland Stadium ( 1995 - 1998 ) and Malanda Stadium ( 1999 ) . Prior to 1995 the stadium site was occupied by the Willows Sporting Complex . It hosted trotting paceway nights , and was the main pacing venue for the Townsville and Thuringowa District . With the admission of the North Queensland Cowboys to the Australian Rugby League competition in 1995 , the Willows site was transformed into a basic rugby league venue with a western and eastern grandstand as well as eastern side terraces . The northern and southern ends were sloped grass hills . The Willows Sports Complex was renamed ' Stockland Stadium ' in 1995 through sponsorship linked with the North Queensland Cowboys . A contract was signed by the Stockland Trust Group for three years giving them the naming rights of the venue . The Joint Board of the old Willows Sports Complex ( Townsville City Council and Thuringowa City Council ) sub - leased the facility to the Cowboys Rugby League Football Limited , who manage the venue on a day to day basis . The first stage of development was funded by a combination of borrowings by the Joint Board , the Queensland Government Grants and a considerable amount of Community and Business donations . The stadium was first used for any type of football for the North Queensland Cowboys first home game which attracted a crowd of 23,156 , a good crowd by Australian Rugby League ( now National Rugby League ) standards . Crowds continued to push the capacity of the stadium and in 1996 the Stoackland Stadium was renovated to include both northern and southern seating , where previously there had been only standing room . Stockland discontinued their sponsorship after three years of support which paved the way for the current sponsor , ' Dairy Farmers Limited ' who have badged the venue ' Malanda Stadium ' . Season 1998 saw the stadium renamed with a new sponsorship deal ' Malanda Stadium ' . But after it 's opening season the Dairy Milk corporation felt it more appropriate to rename the stadium ' Dairy Farmers Stadium ' ( 1998 - current ) after Dairy Farmers bought out the Malanda Milk corporation . Many stages of redevelopment were taken on and gradually completed over the Cowboys growing success . The venue had changed from a disused Harness Racing facility to the current complex . The management and operation of the stadium was handed over to the Major Sports Facilities Authority in December 2003 in the hope for more cash inflow and government spending . In 2005 the eastern terraces were extended , a new replay screen invested , public address system installed , 30 more corporate boxes and upgraded catering facilities as part of the funding injection . The lighting facilities were upgraded for night time broadcasts and the money did n't stop there . 2006 saw the eastern , northern and southern grandstands receiving even further upgrades with the fitting of extra seating and the eastern terrace was extended completely taking over the old eastern hill . Dairy Farmers Stadium is predominantly used as a rugby league ground , being the home ground of the North Queensland Cowboys in the National Rugby League competition , and the North Queensland Young Guns in the Queensland Cup 