Dallas Cowboys New Stadium is the working title of a new stadium being built in Arlington , Texas for the NFL 's Dallas Cowboys . It will replace Texas Stadium , which opened in 1971 . It is scheduled to open before the 2009 NFL season and will accommodate 80,000 , with the possibility for expansion to 100,000 . In addition to the Cowboys , it is possible the new stadium will be used by college football teams and other organizations for other sporting and non - sporting events ; the AT&T Cotton Bowl will move its annual game to the stadium once it opens . Originally estimated to cost $650 million , the stadium 's current construction cost is in excess of $1 billion , which will make it one of the most expensive sports venues ever built. . To aid Cowboys owner / general manager Jerry Jones in paying the construction costs of the new stadium , Arlington voters approved the increase of the city 's sales tax by one - half of a percent , the hotel occupancy tax by 2 percent , and car rental tax by 5 percent . The City of Arlington will provide $325 million in funding , and Jones will cover any cost overruns . Also , the NFL will provide the Cowboys with an additional $150 million , as per their policy for giving teams a certain lump sum of money for stadium finance . Although the stadium has yet to receive a naming rights sponsor , in reference to Jones , many fans have taken to referring to the project as " Jerry World. " . A nearly 300 - foot - tall arch will span the length of the stadium dome , anchored to the ground at each end . The stadium also will have a retractable roof as previously announced , and doors will allow each end zone to be opened . When the design was officially unveiled on December 12 , it showed that the roof would look exactly the same as Texas Stadium 's roof , with its trademark hole . However , it would be covered by the retractable roof panel should it rain or if the heat conditions are unbearable . A Dallas Cowboys Hall of Fame is planned for the appropriately named Hall of Fame level . The drawings also include a site for a large sculpture northeast of the stadium , close to Randol Mill Road . Excavation work at the stadium site began in May 2006 near Rangers Ballpark in Arlington . Until it opens , the Cowboys will continue to play in Texas Stadium . This stadium will host Super Bowl XLV in 2011 , beating out bids from the University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale , Arizona and Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis , Indiana . Situated next to the future Cowboys stadium , the Glorypark development will combine a mix of retail , entertainment , residential , office and hospitality uses . Glorypark will be built in two phases and will consist of more than 1.2 million square feet of retail , 300,000 square feet of office , high - rise and mid - rise residential , and two hotels . The first phase will be completed in fall 2008 . 1994 : Cowboys owner Jerry Jones says he wants to expand the 65,000 - seat Texas Stadium by up to 40,000 seats , add retractable roof panels and install a climate - control system to make the stadium a year - round venue for sporting events , 