Dalymount Park is a football stadium situated in north Dublin . It is the home of Bohemian F.C. , who have played there since the early 20th century . It was also historically the " home of Irish football " holding Irish internationals and FAI Cup finals . It has also hosted Champions League qualifiers , UEFA Cup and Cup - Winners cup matches . However , the ground was hardly developed from the 1940s until the early years of the new century and has fallen out of use as major venue , except for the home games of Bohemians . Dalymount Park was originally common land with a large vegetable plot and known as Pisser Dignam 's Field until it was taken over by Bohemian F.C . . It hosted its first game on September 7 1901 , between Shelbourne F.C. and Bohemians in front of an attendance of around 5,000 . Harold Sloan scored the first ever goal at the ground in a 4 - 2 win for Bohemians . In March 1904 , Dalymount hosted its first international , a game which saw Ireland play Scotland . The first international to feature the Republic of Ireland came in 1924 , when they played the United States . In its heyday , Dalymount Park , or " Dalyer " as it was popularly known , regularly saw crowds of up to 40,000 for big games , however , whether it was ever able to accommodate this number of spectators safely is open to question . The stadium consisted of three sides of open terracing , one side the " shed end " or " school end " being partly covered with a roof over half the terrace since 1945 . The fourth side was the main stand , which held only 1500 seats . The stand was constructed in 1928 , from iron and wood , with wooden benches and terraced standing room at the front . Floodlights were added to the ground in 1962 . Dalymount 's record attendance was put at 48,000 , for an Irish international game against England on May 19 1957 . A similar crowd attended the first entry of an Irish team into the European Cup , when Shamrock Rovers played Manchester United in 1957 . The record attendance at the venue for an FAI Cup Final is 45,000 , achieved when Shamrock Rovers beat Bohemians in 1945 . The ground saw the international debuts of players such as Liam Brady and Johnny Giles . However , by the 1980s Dalymount had been sidelined by the more modern and larger Lansdowne Road rugby ground for Irish football internationals . Parts of the ground had also become somewhat dilapidated , some of terracing was in bad shape - with grass growing on it in places - and one access route to the ground ( behind the old " tramway end " ) had been cut off completely . In February 1985 , when Ireland played , the then World Champions , Italy at Dalymount Park , it was clear that the old ground could not accommodate the 40,000 or so spectators who turned up to see the game . Fans had to passed down to the sidelines to avoid being crushed and serious questions were raised about whether Dalymount was a viable venue for modern sport . After a safety review , the capacity of the stadium was cut in half to only 22,000 . Thereafter , Dalymount only rarely hosted senior internationals and rarer still competitive ones . The last full Irish 