The DCU Center , formerly known as the Worcester Centrum and Worcester 's Centrum Centre , is an indoor arena and convention center complex located in downtown Worcester , Massachusetts . The facility hosts a variety of events including concerts , sporting events , family shows , conventions , trade - shows and meetings . For nearly 25 years , the DCU Center in Worcester has been recognized as the gathering place for people to experience the finest in entertainment , sporting events and public functions . Hailed as one of the most successful entertainment and convention facilities in the nation , the DCU Center opened its doors in September 1982 with the legendary Frank Sinatra Inaugural Concert . Since that time , acts of all musical genres have found their way to the arena stage . From rock to rap , country to contemporary , millions of fans from all over the world have come to the DCU Center to see their favorite performers . The DCU Center is owned by the City of Worcester and managed by SMG , the world 's leading private management and developing firm for public assembly facilities . SMG provides facility services to over 170 venues , managing over ten million square feet of exhibit space and controlling over 1.46 million entertainment seats worldwide . ARAMARK , the global leader in professional food and hospitality services provides oversight of the DCU Center’s concession and catering operations . The arena features annual appearances of the top family shows Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus , Sesame Street Live , Disney On Ice , Harlem Globetrotters and The Wiggles among others . In addition , the facility is home to two professional sports franchises . The Worcester Sharks , the American Hockey League franchise owned , operated and affiliated with the San Jose Sharks , hosts 40 regular season home games plus potential playoff action . The Continental Indoor Football League’s New England Surge is locally owned and operated and boasts a 6 game home schedule plus potential playoff action . The DCU Center also plays host to a variety of additional sporting and entertainment events including Holy Cross Basketball , Professional Bull Riding , MIAA High School Basketball Championships , Stars On Ice , Monster Trucks and more . The DCU Center has hosted the First and Second Rounds of the NCAA Men’s Basketball Championships twice providing significant exposure for the facility , its partners , the City of Worcester and the region . In addition , the DCU Center has hosted NCAA Men’s Ice Hockey regional tournaments more times than any other arena in the country and has already been selected as the host facility for 2008 and 2010 . The Convention Center opened in 1997 and has been described as an architectural gem . With 50,000 square feet of exhibit space , 11 meeting rooms , a 12,144 square foot ballroom ( the largest in Central Massachusetts ) and a state - of - the - art kitchen , the Convention Center is home to a wide array of consumer shows , trade shows , conventions , conferences , high school and college graduations and other functions year - round . Since its opening , the Convention Center has far exceeded all anticipated projections in activity and attendance . 