Dickey - Stephens Park is a new stadium in North Little Rock , Arkansas . It is primarily used for baseball and is the home field of the Arkansas Travelers minor league baseball team . It replaced the club 's former home , Ray Winder Field in Little Rock . Dickey - Stephens Park hosted its first baseball game when the Arkansas Travelers played the Frisco RoughRiders on April 12 , 2007 . The new facility , with a seating capacity of at least 7,000 people , boasts a number of state - of - the - art features including free Wi - Fi access . Built for the start of the 2007 season , Dickey - Stephens Park on North Little Rock’s riverfront is only the third ballpark to be the home of the Arkansas Travelers . Kavanaugh Field , which is now the site of Little Rock’s Quigley Stadium , housed the club from its inception in 1896 until after the 1931 season . Then the Travs began play at an “all new steel and concrete facility” on Wednesday , April 13 , 1932 , in what was then known as Travelers Field . In 1966 Travelers Field was renamed to honor the late Ray Winder , who in 52 years rose from ticket seller to owner and eventually savior of the Travelers . It was Ray Winder who spearheaded the return for the Travelers to Little Rock , as a fan - owned enterprise , after a brief hiatus during the 1959 season . In 1990 , Ray Winder Field hosted the largest crowd ever to witness a baseball game in Arkansas , more than 12,000 , to watch Fernando Valenzuela’s rehabilitation start . After 74 years , Ray Winder Field hosted its farewell baseball game with 8,307 in attendance on September 3 , 2006 . Funded by a North Little Rock voter - approved one - cent sales tax , Dickey - Stephens Park was built through a partnership between the Travs , Little Rock financier Warren Stephens and the city of North Little Rock . After donating an 11 - acre plot of land east of the Broadway Bridge , Mr. Stephens named the ballpark in honor of two pairs of baseball - loving brothers ; Stephens Inc. Founders Jack and Witt Stephens , and Hall of Fame Catcher Bill Dickey and his brother Skeeter , also a former Major League ballplayer . Both Dickey brothers worked for Stephens Inc. following their baseball careers . Bill , who caught for the 1925 Little Rock Travelers , also managed the club for one season following a 17 - year Hall - of - Fame career with the New York Yankees that included seven World Series titles . 