Dolphin Oval is based on the corner of Ashmore and Klinger Roads in Kippa - Ring , North of Brisbane . It is the homeground for the Redcliffe Dolphins rugby league club , who play in the Queensland Wizard Cup . The creation of Dolphin Oval began when the Redcliffe City Council made re - claimed land available for sporting fields in the 1970s . The Redcliffe Dolphins , who at the time were based at the Redcliffe Showgrounds , showed immediate interest and applied for the maximum area available . Redcliffe City Council engineer Kevin Tibbets took to the construction of the ground with the utmost enthusiasm , with the football club even hosting a trip interstate for him to study playing arenas in New South Wales . The transition from the Redcliffe Showgrounds to Dolphin Oval presented some major problems . Due to the isolation of the area at the time of construction , normal services were not readily available and therefore had to be brought in . As there gravity flow to Klingner Road , expensive sewerage pumps had to be brought in , power for the floodlights had to go underground to the main oval and the run - through tunnel was transhipped from Western Australia at a cost of $9000 , which was still cheaper than buying one from the Eastern states . The lighting at the Showgrounds was far superior , but the Redcliffe Rugby League Old Boys , led by Neil Okamura , contributed $5000 loan , which was later turned into a grant , for suitable floodlighting . They also constructed a perimeter playing fence around the main oval at a cost of $2780 . In return , the football club provided the Old Boys with a solid can - booth at the northern end of the complex and were granted the rights to sell liquor on a commission basis . The pressure to build a licenced club at Dolphin Oval was met with a great deal of caution , especially when the existing club at the Showgrounds was still profitable . But within 12 months after the sod - turning ceremony , the new clubhouse was opened by the Mayor of Redcliffe , Ald . With the help of the Federal Member for Petrie , Dean Wells , and his Government 's contribution through their C.E.P. Funding , along with the football club 's own financial arrangements with the Commonwealth Bank , the move was made possible . In January 1979 the committee proposed to name the complex the Don McLennan Oval , but Mr McLennan requested that it be called Dolphin Oval . Fittingly , the first game at Dolphin Oval was between Redcliffe and Norths , the club that originally proposed Redcliffe 's admission into the BRL . The original lease was acquired to 1998 and later extended to 2008 , before the Redcliffe Dolphins bought the land . The ground regularly hosts pre - season NRL trials , and hosted the 2001 , 2002 and 2003 Queensland Cup Grand Finals . McLennan , Don , From Shellgrit to Dolphins : A History of the Redcliffe District Rugby League Football Club , 1995 , Peninsula Printers . 