Dowdy - Ficklen Stadium is a stadium in Greenville , North Carolina . It is primarily used for American football , and is the home field of the East Carolina University Pirates . It opened in 1963 and holds 43,000 people . The stadium opened as Ficklen Memorial Stadium on September 21 , 1963 with a win against Wake Forest . It cost over $300,000 , most of which was raised by the college’s Society of Buccaneers , the school’s booster club . It was originally named for James Skinner Ficklen , owner of Greenville’s E.B. Skinner Tobacco Company . Skinner was considered a friend of the college , and had established a scholarship fund . The stadium originally consisted of only the south side stands , with a small press box and a lighting system . In 1968 , the north stands were constructed , bringing seating capacity up to 20,000 . In 1975 , a $450,000 lighting upgrade was completed , moving the light stanchions to the perimeter of the stadium rather than the edge of the field . The renovation added 288 fixtures of 1500 watts each on six 162 - foot towers . By 1978 , the grandstands had been widened out towards the edges of the stadium , nearly doubling the size of the stadium to 35,000 . The press box was also updated at this time , and a modern scoreboard was installed . In 1983 , a modern drainage system was installed , and Tifton 419 Hybrid Bermuda grass was planted . In April , 1994 , Ron & Mary Ellen Dowdy of Orlando announced a $1 million gift to the ECU Educational Foundation , which would also contribute to the stadium’s continuing renovations . Ron Dowdy , class of 1966 , is a member of the Board of Trustees , who runs Dowdy Properties , a real estate company in the Orlando Area . He has also served on the Executive Committee of the Florida Citrus Sports Association , the Board of Directors for the Florida Citrus Bowl , the Board of Directors at Humana Hospital Lucerne in Orlando , and the Senior Citizen Advisory Committee in Orange County . For their gift , the stadium was renamed Dowdy - Ficklen Stadium that year . In 1997 , the playing surface was renamed in honor of Al and Debby Bagwell , graduates of the university . Al has served as president of the Pirates Club ( the modern booster club ) , and has served on the Board of Visitors . In 1998 , an upper deck was placed on the north side , bringing the capacity to 40,000 . A year later , 3,000 more seats were added , bringing the capacity to its current level . In 2001 , the Murphy Center , a training facility and field house which also contains the ECU Hall of Fame , was opened in the west end zone . One year later , the current $2 million scoreboard , which has an instant replay board and a deck on top for video production , was added to the east end . Future expansion of the stadium includes possibly enclosing the east end zone , the addition of a new press box and suites , the addition of a six story building for office space , player’s lounge , lockerooms , classrooms , and meeting rooms , and the addition of an upper deck on the stadium‘s south side . Upon completion , the stadium’s capacity would increase to over 60,000 under this plan 