Dr Pepper Ballpark ( formerly Dr Pepper / Seven Up Ballpark ) is the home ballpark of the Frisco RoughRiders Class AA minor league baseball club . Located in Frisco , Texas U.S. , the stadium has a capacity of up to 10,600 . The ballpark is host to numerous functions in addition to minor league baseball games , including corporate and charity events , wedding receptions , city of Frisco events , and church services . Local soft drink manufacturer Dr Pepper / Seven Up holds naming rights and exclusive non - alcoholic beverage rights in the park . Since its opening in 2003 , the Dr Pepper Ballpark has won awards and garnered praise for its unique design , feel , and numerous facilities . In his design , park architect David M. Schwarz desired the creation of a village - like " park within a ( ball ) park " . Dr Pepper Ballpark received the 2003 Texas Construction award for Best Architectural Design and was named the best new ballpark in the country by BaseballParks.com . In 2001 , Mandalay Sports Entertainment , owner of the Shreveport SwampDragons Class AA baseball team , reached an agreement with Southwest Sports Group to move the team to Frisco for the 2003 baseball season . As part of the deal , Southwest Sports Group assumed part - ownership of both the team and the ballpark to be built following the 2002 season . The project , designed by David M. Schwarz Architectural Services and HKS Sports & Entertainment Group , broke ground on 2002 - 02 - 06 . The ballpark serves as the anchor for a 74 acre ( 0.3 km² ) US$300 million development project near the intersection of State Highway 121 and the Dallas North Tollway . The project was jointly funded by the city of Frisco and Southwest Sports Group . Frisco put forth US$67 million to build the complex , which was raised through special financing , unconnected to the city tax rate . On 2003 - 01 - 21 , it was announced that local company Dr Pepper / Seven Up had purchased the naming rights for the new ballpark and retained exclusive non - alcoholic beverage rights for an undisclosed amount . The ballpark opened for its first game on 2003 - 04 - 03 , a RoughRiders loss to the Tulsa Drillers . The RoughRiders earned their first victory in the ballpark the next day , with the RoughRiders 's Kurt Airoso hitting the park 's first homerun . Dr Pepper / Seven Up Ballpark was renamed Dr Pepper Ballpark on 2006 - 03 - 31 . On that date , the RoughRiders 's Major League affiliate , the Texas Rangers , defeated the Florida Marlins in an exhibition match played at Dr Pepper Ballpark . The sold - out game was the ballpark 's first major league game of any kind . Overall attendance has ranked in the top 10 in all classes of minor league baseball during the RoughRiders 's first three seasons . The stadium ranked first in all of Class AA in attendance in 2005 . Average attendance at RoughRiders games is 8,000 . On average , there are thirty sell - out games per season . As baseball is not a year - round event , Dr Pepper Ballpark is used for other functions throughout the year . The ballpark hosts corporate events , such as company softball games and movie nights , in addition to local charity events , such as 5K runs and bike 