Easter Road is the home ground of Scottish football club Hibernian . Located in the Leith area of Edinburgh , the stadium has a capacity of 17,500 , making it the seventh largest stadium in Scotland and the largest stadium used primarily for football in Edinburgh . It is affectionately known by Hibs fans as " The Leith San Siro " . Since Sir Tom Farmer took control of Hibernian Football Club in 1991 , the stadium has undergone major redevelopment . Two stands , the Famous Five ( North ) Stand and the South Stand ( previously called the Dunbar End ) , behind each goal were built in 1995 . The West Stand , built in 2001 , is the largest stand , with a capacity of 6,500 , and is similar in design to the North and South Stands . The stadium has dining and conferencing facilities within the West and South stands , and the " Behind the Goals " bar in the Famous Five Stand is one of the largest matchday bars in Scotland . The East Stand was a large terrace which has been greatly reduced , roofed and made all seated . Views of the pitch from this stand are often restricted by supporting pillars . The club does have planning permission to replace this stand with a modern facility similar to the other three stands , but the club 's previously weak financial position and low attendances meant that this idea was temporarily shelved . The club 's rising attendances and consequently improved financial position in the last three years have brought this idea back into focus . Hibs Chairman , Rod Petrie , has been recently ( as of October 2006 ) quoted as saying that the development of training facilities at East Mains ( in East Lothian ) is the first priority for the club . This scheme is expected to be completed in summer 2007 , in time for pre - season training . The record attendance stands at 65,860 against Hearts on 2 January 1950 , dating from when the stadium had large terraces , particularly on the east side of the ground . Easter Road sometimes plays host to Scottish League Cup semi - final matches , depending on the ties drawn . Recent examples of this include Dunfermline 1 v 0 Livingston in 2006 , Hearts 2 v 3 Motherwell in 2005 and Livingston 1 v 0 Dundee in 2004 . Scotland sometimes play full international matches at Easter Road , usually " friendly " matches against less attractive opposition where a relatively small crowd is expected . The Scotland under - 21 team also played one match at Easter Road in recent years , a playoff against the Croatia under - 21 team in 2003 . Scotland won the match 1 - 0 , but lost 2 - 1 on aggregate . In 2006 , the stadium played host to a pre - World Cup friendly between South Korea and Ghana . This match came about because South Korea ( coached by the former Rangers manager Dick Advocaat ) had used Rangers ' training ground as a pre - tournament training base , and wanted matches to complete this training process . This match meant that international stars such as Michael Essien , Stephen Appiah and Park Ji - Sung played at the ground . Ghana won the match 3 - 1 . Easter Road was briefly the home ground for the Edinburgh Rugby professional rugby union team in the late 1990s . It has 