Eden Park is the main sports ground in Auckland , New Zealand for both rugby union during winter , and cricket in summer . To accommodate both sports , the cricket pitch is removable . The ground is located three kilometres southwest of Auckland 's CBD , straddling the boundary between the Kingsland and Mt. Eden suburbs . The Eden Park area has been in use for sports since around 1900 . Eden Park has been the home to Auckland Cricket since 1910 , and also hosts international Test and One - Day cricket . The ground has also been the home of the Auckland Rugby Union since 1925 , hosting Auckland 's home games in the National Provincial Championship and its successor the Air New Zealand Cup , as well as the Blues in Super Rugby , and international test rugby . It hosted the final match of the Rugby World Cup in 1987 . It is scheduled to be the focal point of the 2011 Rugby World Cup , with the opening ceremony , first pool game , and the grand final taking place at Eden Park , as well as numerous other pool and knockout games . Eden Park has a crowd capacity of 42,000 for cricket , and 45,472 for rugby . This is the largest of any New Zealand sports arena . There are no standing areas . Temporary seating in front of the ASB Stand and the West Stand ( usually only used for international rugby matches ) is required for the capacity of 45,472 to be reached . Due to sight - screens and the larger area required for cricket matches , cricket capacity is less . With Eden Park now reconfirmed ( as of November 2006 ) as the preferred site for the 2011 Rugby World Cup , improvements worth NZ$320 million are intended to increase the crowd capacity to 60,000 . However , the scope of the capacity increase ( permanent vs temporary seating , dimensions of the extended structure ) will be subject to further design and costing reviews . The NZ$320 million for these improvements is still mostly unassigned . As of August 2006 , the Government of New Zealand , that pledged the improvements at the time Auckland was selected as the host of the Rugby World Cup , has only promised NZ$20 million , with the New Zealand Rugby Football Union promising NZ$10 million and the Eden Park Trust Board promising NZ$24 million . Auckland City would then have to contribute NZ$100 million or more , as mayor Dick Hubbard has publicly admitted. . Rates hikes in the Auckland area in 2006 , of quite substantial percentages in many cases , have however increased widespread unwillingness of many rate - payers to provide what is perceived as a national stadium solely or substantially by Auckland ratepayer funds . Associated criticism has centred on whether funding a large new sports stadium , to be used at the new capacity for only a few days a year , should be a priority at this time , when there is widespread complaint about the level of other council services . This means that allocation of ratepayer / council funds will likely become an acrimonious political process , if the planned expansion comes to pass at all . The redevelopment project includes a new three - tier South stand that will replace the old South and South West stands with a capacity of 24,000 and a new three - tier East stand to replace the Terraces . The number of covered 