The Edward Jones Dome ( more formally known as the Edward Jones Dome at America 's Center ) is a 66,000 seat football stadium in St. Louis , Missouri , and home of the St. Louis Rams of the NFL . It was constructed largely to lure an NFL team back to St. Louis , and to serve as a convention center . Completed in 1995 , it was known as the Trans World Dome , after Trans World Airlines , until 2001 , when TWA was acquired by American Airlines . The facility was then briefly known as the Dome at America 's Center ( America 's Center being the adjacent convention facility ) until the naming rights were acquired on January 25 , 2002 by Edward Jones Investments , a brokerage house based in St. Louis . As part of a deal to sell the naming rights to Rams Park ( now the Russell Athletic Training Center ) , the Rams ' training facility in Earth City , Missouri after sportswear manufacturer Russell Athletic , the Rams agreed to rename the Edward Jones Dome to Russell Athletic Field for the Rams ' Monday Night Football game against the Chicago Bears on December 11 , 2006 . The renaming was for the one night only . The Edward Jones Dome became the site of the biggest indoor gathering in United States history in 1999 when Pope John Paul II held mass in the stadium . Over 104,000 people attended the service . In April 2005 , the Edward Jones Dome hosted the 2005 NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Tournament Final Four where the University of Louisville , the University of Illinois , Michigan State University , and the University of North Carolina faced off , with UNC winning the National Championship game against the University of Illinois . It will host the NCAA Men 's Basketball St. Louis Regional for the 2007 NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Tournament and the Women 's Final Four for the 2009 NCAA Women 's Division I Basketball Tournament . The dome was the site of the 1996 and 1998 Big 12 football conference championship games . Starting in 2006 , Edward Jones Dome will become the home of the InterVarsity Christian Fellowship Urbana missions conference . This event outgrew its former home on the University of Illinois campus in Urbana . In May 2005 , the St. Louis Rams football team announced that the dome would use FieldTurf instead of the antiquated , 10 - year old AstroTurf . The surface is a one - year plan until a more flexible surface can be made with access to the power outlets on the dome 's concrete floor . After the 2005 season the Rams announced that the current FieldTurf would be torn up and be replaced with another temporary FieldTurf surface for the 2006 season . Formerly the Cleveland Rams and the Los Angeles Rams . Currently based in St. Louis , Missouri . 