Ellis Park Stadium is a rugby union stadium in the city of Johannesburg , Gauteng Province , South Africa . It hosted the Rugby World Cup final in 1995 , which was won by the country 's national team , the Springboks . The large stadium was the country 's most modern when it was upgraded in 1982 to accommodate almost 60,000 people . Today , the stadium hosts both football and rugby , and is also used as a venue for other large events , such as open - air concerts . It has become synonymous with rugby as the only time when rugby was not played at Ellis Park was during 1980 and 1981 when the stadium was under construction during an upgrade . In 2001 a stampede occurred during a soccer game between Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs . With 42 people killed , the Ellis Park Stadium disaster is the biggest of its kind in South Africa . The stadium is named after Mr JD Ellis who made the initial area for the stadium available . League , provincial , and international games have all been played at the stadium , and it has seen such teams as Brazil , Manchester United and Arsenal play . Ellis Park Stadium is the centrepiece of a sporting sector in the south - east of Johannesburg , where it neighbours Johannesburg Stadium ( athletics ) , Standard Bank Stadium ( tennis ) , and an Olympic - class swimming pool . Cricket matches were held at the stadium in the past . It hosted six Test matches between 1948 and 1954 , but it has not been used for first - class cricket since New Wanderers Stadium opened in 1956 and is now used only for rugby and soccer . In 1889 when after a long and hard fought battle the Transvaal Rugby Football Union ( now the Golden Lions Rugby Union ) was formed and established a domain . The first games were played at the Wanderers Club’s stadium whose grounds were situated where Johannesburg Park station is today . Rows between the different rugby clubs as well as the Wanderers Club 's claim of the field for the use of cricket games , forced the TRFU to look for an alternative . An area with a quarry and garbage dumps in Doornfontein was identified in 1927 as the possible alternative . The TRFU negotiated with the Johannesburg City Council 's , Mr JD Ellis , ( after whom Ellis Park was named ) for the availability of these grounds and 13 acres was made available . On 10 October 1927 the final rental agreement was signed . A quote of £600 was accepted for the grass and with a loan from the city council to the amount of £5 000 , the building of the new stadium could commence . The stadium was built in eight months and in June 1928 the first test was played against the All Blacks . Thus was born Ellis Park which became internationally renowned and synonymous with rugby . Crowds of between 38 000 and a record crowd of 100 000 against the British Lions ( in 1955 ) attended the matches . Ellis Park played the host for cricket matches after an agreement was reached between TRFU and Cricket|Union . From 1947 when the cricket pitch was laid until 1956 , Ellis Park was host to various cricket matches with the final games played in the 1953 / 54 series against New Zealand . Cricket then moved to its new 