The 120 Days of Sodom or the School of Freedoms ( Les 120 journées de Sodome ou l'école du libertinage ) is a book written by the French writer Marquis de Sade in 1784 . It relates the story of four wealthy men who enslave 24 mostly teenaged victims and sexually torture them while listening to stories told by old prostitutes . The book was not published until 1905 . Originally written in French , it was translated into many languages , including English , Japanese and German . Due to its extreme sexual and violent nature , the book remained banned in many countries for a long time . Sade wrote The 120 Days of Sodom in the space of thirty - seven days in 1784 while he was imprisoned in the Bastille . Being short of writing materials and fearing confiscation , he wrote it in tiny writing on a continuous , twelve - metre long roll of paper . When the Bastille was stormed and looted on July 14 , 1789 during the height of the French Revolution , Sade believed the work was lost forever and later wrote that he " wept tears of blood " over its loss . However , the long roll of paper on which it was written was later found hidden in his cell , having escaped the attentions of the looters . It was first published in 1904 by the Berlin psychiatrist Iwan Bloch ( who used a pseudonym ' dr Eugen Dühren ' to avoid controversy ) . It was not until the latter half of the 20th century that it became more widely available in countries such as Britain , the USA and France . The first publisher of the work , Dr. Bloch , regarded its thorough categorization of all manner of sexual fetishes as having " scientific importance . . .to doctors , jurists , and anthropologists. " . He equated it with Kraft - Ebbing 's Psychopathia Sexualis . Feminist writer Simone de Beauvoir wrote an essay titled Must We Burn Sade ? , defending the 120 Days of Sodom when , in 1955 , French authorities planned on destroying it and three other major works by Sade . On the other hand , another feminist writer , Andrea Dworkin , condemned it as " vile pornography " and its author as the embodiment of misogyny , especially as the rape , tortures and murders are inflicted by male characters on victims who are mostly ( but not exclusively ) female . Noted Sade scholar Alice Laborde has charged Dworkin with " intentionally misreading the satirico - novelistic elements of the text. " . Instead , Laborde advocates a view of ' 120 Days of Sodom ' that stresses the signifying , as opposed to the symbolizing , function of Sadian language and person . The " misogynistic " elements of the text thus become , for Laborde , a method of both social critique and the re - invention of the French literary corpus . Sade 's fiction thus instantiates a ritual by which history is transcended and " authenticité " regained . Camille Paglia considers Sade 's work a " satirical response to Jean - Jacques Rousseau " in particular , and the Enlightenment concept of man 's innate goodness in general . Much of the sexual violence in the book draws from the notorious historical cases of Gilles de Rais and Elizabeth Báthory . The 120 Days Of Sodom has been described as a Gothic novel . It is set in a 