1632 is the initial novel in the best selling alternate history genre 1632 book series set in the Holy Roman Empire by historian , writer and editor Eric Flint . The flagship novel kicked off a remarkable collaborative writing effort that has involved hundreds of contributors , dozens of authors , and has published works now numbered well into the double digits—and if anything—is adding new titles at an increasingly fast pace ( see : the two main articles ) . The premise involves a small American town of three thousand ' Hillbillies ' sent back to April 1631 , during the Thirty Years ' War . The fictional town of Grantville , WV ( modeled on the real town of Mannington , West Virginia ) and its power plant are displaced in space - time , through a side effect ( an accident , in truth ) of an alien technology ( The Assiti Shards ) . A hemispherical section of land about three miles in radius measured from the town center is transported back in time from April of 2000 ( our time line ' OTL ' ) into the middle of the Thirty Years ' War , in the German province of Thuringia in the Thuringer Wald in May of 1631 , near the fictional German free city of Badenburg . This Assiti event occurs during a wedding reception , accounting for the presence of a few characters not native to the town , including an extra doctor and his daughter , a nurse . Real Thuringian municipalities located close to Grantville are posited as Weimar , Jena , Saalfeld and the more remote Erfurt , Arnstadt , and Eisenach ; all located in the valley of the Saale River East of the Palatinate ( Rhine ) well to the south of Halle and Leipzig . Grantville , led by Mike Stearns , president of the local United Mine Workers of America ( UMWA ) , and a supporting cast of characters widely diverse in background and viewpoint cope with the town 's space - time dislocation , the surrounding raging war , language barriers , and numerous social and politician issues , including class conflict , witchcraft , feminism , the reformation and the counter - reformation , among many other factors . One complication is a compounding of the town 's food shortage when the town is flooded by refugees from the war . Flint also addresses the culture shock experienced by the 1631 locals exposed to the mores of contemporary society , including modern dress , sexual liberation , and boisterous American - style politics . In a more practical vein , the plot covers short - term survival of the town , as well as the long - term question of how to maintain technology sundered from twenty - first century resources . Throughout 1631 , Grantville manages to establish itself locally forming the nascent United States of Europe ( USE ) with several local free cities ( and a couple which are n't ) while the war - clouds dog the northern German plain . But once Count Tilly falls during the Battle of Breitenfeld outside of Leipzig , King Gustavus Adolphus rapidly moves the war theater to Grantville 's south into Franconia and Bavaria , both of which are on Grantville 's doorstep . The events of 1632 thereafter qualify as interesting times leading up to the creation of an awkward Confederated Principalities of Europe ( CPoE ) and some measure of security for Grantville 's up - timer and down 