1634 : The Ram Rebellion is the seventh published work in the 1632 series , and is the third work to establish what is best considered as the third mainline thread of historical speculative focus in the 1632 alternative - history universe ( colloquially , the 1632 - verse , or first ' Assiti Shards Universe ' ) . It is an anthology with several longer Novelettes and one of five planned works set in the year 1634 in the parallel universe established in the first novel , 1632 ( novel ) . The Ram Rebellion is currently available as an ebook and a hardcover novel . As of this writing , the 1632 lead novel article contains a ( draft ) detailed description of the underlying history before the Assiti Shard event plunged the contemporary fictional town of Grantville , WV into heart of the conflict known as the Thirty Years ' War . These merging dynamics are the milieu shaping stories Flint felt necessary to include despite the fact they are all in the period 1631–1632 , but their impact extends to the second two sections of the book and thus into 1634 . There are many actual historical figures occupying prominent or supporting roles in the novels as they react to the ripples of change as they radiate from Grantville , WV . The main article covering this aspect is currently List of Fictional Characters . With the example of future Grantsville , U.S.A. , a peasant revolt becomes a revolutionary movement in the fractured Holy Roman Empire south and east of Thuringia while the Machievillian maneuvers in the neohistorical governments and various field armies now dance to counter - act those aimed at the Americans ' new heartland . Up - timers , from the original USA space - time want the serfs to succeed and liberate themselves - - but also know what a bloodbath the French Revolution became and various individuals act to help one and prevent the others . Avoiding that path will take all sorts of resources and efforts , and Americans from both uptime and down - time act resolutely to mitigate the problems , diplomacy to head off wars headed by authoritarians threatened by the new American ideals , and a deft appreciation of when not to fight and dangle an irresistible carrot instead . 1632 , the first and lead novel in the complex series , is an upbeat science fiction alternate history novel . Originally intended to be a single story , it has grown into an open - ended series of seven published books with at least five books under advanced contract , plus three related ebooks likely to follow later in print . Published about the same time Baen Books launched an author - to - fan forum ( Baen 's Bar ) , a thread quickly led to discussions of likely subsequent events . These removed the burden upon Flint to research the likely outcome and limiting circumstances within the timeframe . The author invited other authors to ' play in his milieu ' , and help define it ( as was done in C. J. Cherryh 's Merovingen Nights series , based on her novel Angel with the Sword ( 1985 ) ) . The initial result was the novel 1633 , co - written with David Weber , and the anthology Ring of Fire , modified to be consistent across all the storylines within both . Each helped shape the other in the early development of the shared world . Before 1970 , 