1776 is a book written by historian David McCullough , first published by Simon & Schuster on May 24 , 2005 . The work is considered a companion piece to McCullough 's earlier biography of John Adams , and focuses on the events surrounding the start of the American Revolution . While revolving mostly around the leadership ( and often indecisiveness ) of George Washington , there is also considerable attention given to King George III , General Howe , Henry Knox , and Nathanael Greene . Key Revolutionary War battles detailed in the book include the Battle of Dorchester Heights , the Battle of Long Island , and the Battle of Trenton . Interestingly , the actual signing of the Declaration of Independence is treated as a somewhat minor detail , as the main focus of the book is on military rather than political events . The book includes a number of pages of full color illustrations , including portraits and historical battlefield maps made by British engineers at the time . The book begins with King George III making his way to the Parliament building in October of 1775 . He announces to Parliament that America is in an uprising and must be dealt with accordingly . Both branches of Parliament , the House of Lords and the House of Commons , vote for the use of force to rekindle the American uprising . The first major American offensive during the Revolutionary War was at Dorchester Heights , located in southern Boston . Commander - in - Chief of the British forces , General William Howe , had been ordered by England to abandon Boston with his forces and make way to New York before winter . Due to the large amount of time it took to cross the Atlantic , Howe did not receive the news until winter had already come . Therefore , he decided to hold his troops and remain in Boston until winter had passed . In order to gain the advantage in the war , Washington knew he had to achieve victory at Boston . His council of war drew up a plan to fortify the Heights of Dorchester peninsula , putting them in cannon’s range of the British forces . The date of this fortification was to take place on March 5 , the one - year anniversary of the Boston Massacre . In order to prepare for such a large offensive , Washington 's Army paraded Boston with sounds of gunfire and racket , in order to hide the noise of the movement of the cannons . In one night , Washington’s men dug trenches and prepared twenty cannons . The British officials were awestruck . On page 93 , General Howe states , " My God , these fellows have done more work in one night than I could make my army do in three months. " . The British tried to hit the Continental Army at first , but the British cannons could not reach that height of the Americans . The British could not gain any advantage against their attack in Dorchester , so , on March 17 , St. Patrick’s Day , the British moved out . More than 8,000 British troops marched in the streets of Boston and headed to the nearly 120 ships along with over 1,000 women and children , and 1,000 Loyalists who sought refuge . The British troops were seeking refuge in Halifax , but Gen. Howe later sought to gain New York . Washington’s army did not stay long at Boston 