1945 is an alternate history co - authored by Newt Gingrich and William R. Forstchen in 1995 , describing the period immediately after a World War II wherein the United States had fought only against Japan , allowing Nazi Germany to defeat the Soviet Union , after which the two victors confront each other in a cold war which swiftly turns hot . The book is unique in having been written by a well - known politician and published when the author was at the peak of a quite controversial career , with criticism of the book for its merits ( or lack thereof ) and criticism of the author for his political stance being almost inextricably mixed . Almost invariably , reviews mentioned the " pouting sex kitten " ( a character which only appeared in the prologue ) . Originally , the authors and Jim Baen , the head of Baen Books , had intended that 1945 would be the first of a trilogy . The success of the Republican Party in the 1994 elections made Gingrich the most prominent member of the U.S. Congress . Anticipating a greatly - increased demand for the book , Baen was ordered by its distributor to switch from paperback to hardcover , and increased the print run to meet the much - larger advance orders from booksellers . Their expectations proved unwarranted , and resulted in major financial troubles for the publisher.Sales were respectable for a hardcover science - fiction novel , but nothing like the expected best - seller . Over 80 % of the copies printed were remaindered , killing paperback sales as well . The book details the planned invasion of the United States to stop the atomic bomb programs in Oak Ridge and Los Alamos , along with the invasion of England . It ends with a cliffhanger — Rommel invading Scotland , the British facing a desperate fight , and Churchill imploring the Americans " come quickly , this is much worse than 1940 " — but a promised sequel , provisionally called " Fortress Europa " , has yet to be written , though many years have passed and the writers had meanwhile completed a different alternate history trilogy ( beginning with Gettysburg : A Novel of the Civil War ) . In our history , " Fortress Europe " was the Nazi concept of making German - occupied Europe impregnable to the invasion which was clearly coming since the US started massing its forces in Britain in 1943 . In D - Day this " fortress " was decisively breached . The projected book 's name seems to suggest that the same would happen in this history , some years behind schedule ( and without a Soviet army simultaneously coming in from the east ) . The book drew many negative reviews which Gingrich supporters claimed were biased and politically - motivated ( see ) . It has been described as being " a disguised tract against gun control " as a key scene depicts an armed Tennessee civilian militia , led by Alvin York , defeating Otto Skorzeny 's commandos who raid Oak Ridge . 