2001 : A Space Odyssey ( 1968 ) is a science fiction novel by Arthur C. Clarke . It was developed concurrently with Stanley Kubrick 's film version and published after the release of the film . The story is based in part on various short stories by Clarke , most notably " The Sentinel " ( written in 1948 for a BBC competition but first published in 1951 under the title " Sentinel of Eternity " ) . For an elaboration of Clark and Kubrick 's collaborative work on this project , see The Lost Worlds of 2001 , Arthur C. Clarke , Signet. , 1972 . The first part of the novel ( in which aliens nudge the primitive human ancestors ) is similar to the plot of an earlier Clarke story , Encounter at Dawn . Benign aliens keeping a watch on development of intelligent beings everywhere and helping where they can , is an idea this novel shares with Rescue Party , Clarke 's first published story . Opening parts of another Clarke story , Transience , is set in the same period of human history as first part of this novel ; but the two stories are unrelated . In the background to the story in the book , an ancient and unseen alien race uses a mechanism with the appearance of a large crystal monolith ( black in the film adaptation ) to investigate worlds all across the galaxy and , if possible , to encourage the development of intelligent life . The book shows one such monolith appearing in ancient Africa , three million years B.C. , where it inspires a starving group of the hominid ancestors of human beings to conceive of tools . The ape - men use their tools to kill animals and eat meat , ending their starvation . They then use the tools to kill a leopard that had been preying on them ; the next day the main ape character , " Moon - Watcher " , uses a club to kill the leader of a rival tribe . Moon - Watcher reflects that he is now master of the universe , but is unsure of what to do - but he'll think of something . The book then leaps millennia to the year 1999 , detailing Dr. Heywood Floyd 's travelling to Clavius base on the Moon . Upon his arrival , Floyd attends a meeting . A lead scientist explains that they have found a magnetic disturbance in Tycho , one of the Moon 's craters . An excavation of the area has revealed a large black slab , designated Tycho Magnetic Anomaly - One ( TMA - 1 ) . It is precisely fashioned and , at three million years of age , was not made by humans . It is the first evidence for the existence of intelligent life off the Earth . Floyd and a team of scientists drive across the moon to actually view TMA - 1 . They arrive just as sunlight hits upon it for the first time in three million years . It then sends a piercing radio transmission to the far reaches of the solar system . The book then leaps forward 18 months to the Discovery One mission to Saturn . David Bowman and Frank Poole are the conscious human beings aboard Discovery One . Three of their colleagues are in a state of suspended animation , to be awakened when they near Saturn . The HAL 9000 , an artificially intelligent computer , maintains the 