2010 : Odyssey Two is a best selling science fiction novel by Arthur C. Clarke , which was released in January 1982 . It is the sequel to 2001 : A Space Odyssey and was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1983 . The novel was turned into a 1984 film , 2010 : The Year We Make Contact . Unlike 2001 : A Space Odyssey , the novel and the screenplay were not written simultaneously , but the film is not an adaptation in the conventional sense , as there are significant differences between the two . In one aspect , a part of this novel has similarities with a much older short story by Clarke , History Lesson : superfast evolution on a world just made habitable . See History Lesson for more specific comments . For both the book and the movie , the story is set nine years after the failure of the Discovery mission to Jupiter . Note that the novel version of 2001 featured the journey to Saturn instead : Clarke acknowledges this retroactive continuity in his author 's foreword . A joint Soviet - American crew , including Heywood Floyd from 2001 , on the Soviet ( in reality , the Soviet Union is 9 years gone by this time ) spaceship Alexei Leonov ( named after the famous cosmonaut ) arrives to discover what went wrong with the earlier mission , to investigate the monolith in orbit around the planet , and to resolve the disappearance of David Bowman . They hypothesize that much of this information is locked away on the now - abandoned Discovery One craft . The Soviets have an advanced new " Sakharov " drive ( a reference to the physicist Andrei Sakharov ) which will propel them to Jupiter first , so Floyd is assigned to the Leonov crew as part of a joint mission . However , a Chinese " space station " rockets out of Earth orbit , revealing itself to be an interplanetary spacecraft named the Tsien , which is also aimed at Jupiter . The Leonov crew comment on the kamikaze - like method of the Chinese team , but Floyd eventually surmises that due to the large water content of Europa , they are destined to land there and use the water content to refuel their tanks . The Tsien 's daring mission ends in failure , when it is destroyed by an indigenous life - form on Europa . The only survivor radios the story to the Leonov ; it is presumed that he dies when his spacesuit air supply runs out . The Leonov eventually rendezvous with the Discovery , and Hal 's creator , Dr. Chandra , on the mission , reactivates the HAL 9000 computer to ascertain the cause of his earlier aberrant behavior . A sequence of scenes follows the explorations of David Bowman , who has been transformed into a non - corporeal , energy - based life - form , much like the aliens controlling the monoliths . In the novel , the aliens use Bowman to explore beneath the ice of Europa , where they find aquatic life forms , and under the clouds of Jupiter , where they discover gaseous life forms . Both are primitive , but the aliens deem the Europan creatures to have evolutionary potential . During his journey , the avatar of Bowman travels to the Earth , making contact with significant individuals from his human past : he visits his mother and brushes her hair 