24 : One Shot is the first graphic novel published that is based on the hit TV series 24 . It was first released by IDW Publishing but has more recently featured as one of three graphic novels in a collection book known simply as 24 ( The others being 24 : Stories and 24 : Midnight Sun ) . This book was published by Titan Books in 2005 . 24 : One Shot is set eighteen months before the events of Season 1. Jack Bauer is the main protagonist of the TV series and is also the main protagonist in this graphic novel which depicts his first day at the Los Angeles Counter Terrorist Unit . He has been assigned from the FBI by Division to become the new Director of Field Operations at the LA CTU . His first assignment is to personally protect Moira O'Neal , a beautiful but dangerous former terrorist previously affiliated with the Irish Republican Army who recently turned herself in after a sudden change of heart . O'Neal 's former associates are n't happy about her sudden defection ; they are not prepared to allow her to pass on information to the American government and have made their way onto American soil to find and kill Moira . In the climax of the story Jack realises he has one bullet left in his gun to kill the last three terrorists with - Maggie , Megan and Tim . Jack cautiously sneaks up on Megan and Maggie , turns and fires Maggie 's gun in her hands at Megan . As Jack and Maggie fall to the ground he manages to shoot her gun at her . Jack quickly moves to find Moira but discovers her with a gun pointed to her head in the hand of Tim McGinnis . McGinnis tells Jack to drop his weapon . Jack drops Maggie 's gun to the ground and tries to persuade McGinnis to cut a deal and let her go . When McGinnis refuses Jack suddenly drops to the ground , pulls his gun out from the back of his jeans and uses his one remaining shot to shoot McGinnis in the head . The title is also a pun , since a one shot also means that the comic is a stand - alone story . Jack Bauer is not the only character to feature in both the comic and first season of 24 . Richard Walsh , Nina Myers , Tony Almeida , Milo Pressman , and Jamey Farrell all appear in the same roles they have in Season 1. However Jack has taken on the role of Special Agent - In - Charge by the time of the TV series . The story shows Nina Myers betraying the American government by releasing information about Moira 's whereabouts to Donovan and information about Jack to her employers in Germany . She is uncovered as a traitor in the final episode of Season 1 . 24 : One Shot attempts to replicate the real - time nature of the TV series . There are 48 pages of comic strip with every 2 pages depicting approximately an hour of the story such as to tell the story of a whole day in the graphic novel ( from 10am to 10am the following day ) . The idea of every 2 pages depicting an hour was not replicated in the two other graphic novels - although both depict a whole day . 24 : One Shot was written before the airing of Season 5 of 24 