3001 : The Final Odyssey ( 1997 ) is a science fiction novel by Arthur C. Clarke . It is the fourth and final book in the Space Odyssey series . 3001 follows the adventures of Frank Poole , an astronaut who was murdered by HAL 9000 in 2001 : A Space Odyssey . His body is discovered after drifting in space for a millennium and brought back to life , exposure to vacuum having preserved him sufficiently for the advanced medical technology of the time to be able to revive him . He then explores the Earth of 3001 , notable features of which are the BrainCap , a technology which interfaces computers directly with the human brain , genetically engineered dinosaur servants , and four enormous towers spaced around the equator connected by a spaceport ring in geostationary orbit , called Astropolis . Many readers have surmised that this future is intended to represent ( at least in part ) Clarke 's personal vision of Utopia . In the 26th century , the monolith in Africa ( dubbed TMA - 0 ) which kickstarted human intellectual evolution has been discovered . In the course of the novel , it is determined that following the events of 2010 : Odyssey Two the Jupiter monolith sent a report back to its " superior " 450 light years away and is about to receive its orders on how to deal with humanity ( since the report would take 450 years to reach the superior , and the orders 450 years to come back ) . There is considerable worry that the judgment , made based on the monolith 's observations of humanity up to 2001 , will be negative . The entire human race , then , may be in danger of being obliterated by the aliens , just as the Jovian life - forms discovered by David Bowman were deliberately destroyed . Frank manages to conscript Bowman and HAL , who have fused into a new entity - ' Halman ' - and now reside in the monolith 's computational matrix , to infect the monolith with a computer virus in an attempt to avert the potential apocalypse . Just as the humans feared , the Monolith does indeed receive orders to exterminate mankind , and begins to duplicate itself many hundreds of millions of times over . These millions of monoliths assemble themselves into two separate screens in front of Sol and Lucifer to prevent all vital light and heat from reaching Earth and its colonies . The intent is to shut down the entire terran biological life - cycle . However , the Monolith was already infected with Halman 's virus at the time it began duplicating itself , and fifteen minutes after the screens are formed , all the Monoliths disintegrate , including TMA - 0 and TMA - 1 . Halman manages to download its combined personalities into a petabyte - capacity storage medium and thus survives the disintegration of the monoliths . However , it is infected in the process with the virus it itself created , and is subsequently sealed by human scientists within a special containment facility used to house various chemical , biological , and cybernetic weapons , where it will presumably be stored until such time as humans ( or others ) choose to release it . Apparently , the creators of the Monoliths , who had long since evolved into non - corporeal beings , had been watching humanity . They decided that they should not decide humanity 's fate 