45 is a non - fiction book by Bill Drummond , referred to by The Guardian as a " charmingly barking memoir " . Please help ] improve this section ] by expanding it . Further information might be found on the ] or at requests for expansion . Please help ] improve this section ] by expanding it . Further information might be found on the ] or at requests for expansion . 45 was widely reviewed in the British press . The Times said that " It is usually a disaster when pop stars write books . . . . But Bill Drummond was never your average rock star " , describing the book as " A series of loosely related vignettes forming the rambling diary of one year , it initially feels far removed from the scam - mongering stunts that we have come to expect . Drummond portrays himself as a shambling , absurd figure , saddled with the twin obsessions of pop music and art . . . . has the inimitable wisdom of a true maverick. " . Charles Shaar Murray wrote in The Independent that " Drummond is many things , and one of those things is a magician . Many of his schemes - one example is described as " a private joke that 's so private I do n't even get it myself " - involve symbolically - weighted acts conducted away from the public gaze and documented only by Drummond himself and his participating comrades . Nevertheless , they are intended to have an effect on a worldful of people unaware that the act in question has taken place . That is magical thinking . Art is magic , and so is pop . Bill Drummond is a cultural magician , and 45 is his logbook. " . A second review in The Independent added that " despite all the half - truths and self - effacing irony , and what Drummond calls " the incessant self - mythologising vanity " , the stories in 45 strike me as peculiarly and sometimes painfully honest . It appears that , after all this time , he 's decided it would be nice if his motives were understood . By himself at least . And if I'm wrong about that , 45 is still worth reading for the daft aphorisms - " Down escalators are one of the greatest inventions ever " - and all the situationist pranks involving dead cows , Stonehenge and money that never quite made the transition from Drummond 's imagination to the real world. " . Steven Poole wrote in The Guardian that " 45 is a further attempt to bury the myth . Throughout , Drummond poses as an ordinary middle - aged man who lives in the country , drinks lots of tea and spends his mornings in the nearest library , with coffee breaks in the shopping centre . Yet the myth motors on , pitilessly . When he goes to Serbia to appear on an underground music station , he brings a recording of an unreleased KLF song called `The Magnificent ' . Soon it `had not only become the theme tune of the station , but the anthem of the democracy movement . In summary , Poole said , " At its best has flashes of twisted brilliance reminiscent of Iain Sinclair or Will Self , but the majority is most interesting because the author was one half of the KLF . Of course , that is more than enough glory for 