60 Minutes and the Assassination of Werner Erhard is a biography of Werner Erhard by Jane Self . The book was published in 1992 by Breakthru Publishing . The title refers to a March 3 , 1991 broadcast of 60 Minutes , which examined controversial aspects of Werner Erhard 's personal and business life . Stripping the Gurus - Jane Self’s ( 1992 ) 60 Minutes and the Assassination of Werner Erhard has further offered a staunch defense of Erhard against the uncomplimentary picture of him painted by the media . There , she alleges that the orchestration of his downfall can be found within the Church of Scientology . In that same book , Erhard’s daughters are quoted as retracting their previous allegations of improprieties on his part , having supposedly made them under duress . The title of the book deals with a piece on 60 Minutes which aired on March 3 , 1991 , on CBS . Perhaps the most damaging blow of all against Erhard was aMarch 3 " 60 Minutes " television report that detailed testimony fromthree of his daughters , several former est leaders , and ahousekeeper . Together , they accused Erhard of being a tyrant and acult leader who declared himself to be God at staff meetings , administered a savage beating to his son , ordered his ex - wifenearly strangled to death during a two - day beating , and sexuallymolested one of his daughters and raped another . The " 60 Minutes " report also detailed that Erhard had bailedout of his $70 - million - a - year business . Published reports say hesold his human - potential movement empire in February to a group ofhis employees for an undisclosed sum and put most of hispossessions ( including the yacht where he lived in Sausalitoharbor ) up for sale . The San Jose Mercury News , speculating thatErhard may have fled the country , quoted a witness who said hewatched three men load boxes and steamer trunks from Erhard 'swarehouse into a Tokyo Express moving van . Directly after the " 60 Minutes " report - - around the time hedisappeared - - there was more trouble for Erhard . The Internal Revenue Service filed a $14 million lien against him followed by a $6.7 million lien in April that included property in California and New York . This placed his total tax liability at $20.9 million , according to the April 14 , 1991 Philadelphia Inquirer . In his 1993 book , Outrageous Betrayal , Steven Pressman recounts how incest allegations against Werner Erhard made on CBS television 's 60 Minutes program in March 1991 came from Deborah Rosenberg , the youngest child from Erhard / Rosenberg 's first marriage . Deborah Rosenberg 's allegations of molestation and rape also appeared in print in an article in the San Francisco Chronicle . One year after the " 60 Minutes " piece aired , Erhard filed a lawsuit against CBS and a variety of other defendants , claiming that the broadcast contained several " false , misleading and defamatory " statements about Erhard . However , Erhard dropped the lawsuit a few months before any court decision had been reached on its claims . There have been allegations that Mr. Erhard was abusive to his family . However , those allegations were later recanted . I am enclosing a copy of the article in the July 16 , 1992 edition of the San Jose Mercury News regarding the lawsuit brought by one of Mr. Erhard 's daughters against 