A Case of Conscience is a science fiction novel by James Blish , first published in 1958 . It is the story of a Jesuit who investigates an alien race that has no religion ; they are completely without any concept of God , an afterlife , or the idea of sin ; and the species evolves through several forms through the course of its life cycle . The story was originally published as a novella in 1953 , and later extended to novel - length , of which the first part is the original novella . The novel is the first part of Blish 's thematic " After Such Knowledge " trilogy , followed by Black Easter / The Day After Judgment and Dr Mirabilis . The story is unusual in several respects . Few science fiction stories of the time attempted religious themes , and still fewer did this with Catholicism . Some of the first part is taken up with the Jesuit 's attempt to solve a puzzle , a long description of scandalous intrigue between various pseudonymous characters . As he is about to leave for Earth , he realizes the puzzle is soluble . The puzzle is contained within the pages of Finnegans Wake , by James Joyce . Many reacted negatively to the story , but surprisingly few educated Catholics were among them . One even sent James Blish a copy of the actual Church guidelines for dealing with extra - terrestrials . These are not detailed , but merely suggest overall strategy based on whether the beings have souls or not , and if they have them , whether they are fallen like humans , or exist in a state of grace . Father Ramon Ruiz - Sanchez , of Peru , Clerk Regular of the Society of Jesus , is a member of a four - man team of scientists sent to the planet Lithia to determine if the planet can be opened to contact with the rest of humanity . Ruiz - Sanchez is a biologist , biochemist , the team doctor , and a fair cook besides . However as a Jesuit , he has other concerns as well . The planet is inhabited by a race of intelligent bipedal reptilian - like creatures , the Lithians . Ruiz - Sanchez has learned to speak their language , the better to know them . As the story begins , he is alone in the house given to them by the Lithians . Two of the others are away on a field trip , and the remaining scientist , the physicist Cleaver , is just returning from a walking survey of the land . He has managed to pick up some poison from a local plant , despite a protective suit , and is in bad shape . Ruiz - Sanchez treats him , leaves him sleeping , and leaves the house to send a message to the others , Michelis , a chemist , and Agronski , a geologist . To do this he travels to a tree atop a huge underground quartz crystal . Despite having no knowledge of electric current , the Lithians are masters of static electricity and use this crystal as a communicator . He is helped by Chtexa , a Lithian who he has befriended , who then invites him to his house . This is an incredible opportunity for Ruiz - Sanchez , which he cannot afford to pass up . No member of the team has been invited into the Lithian living places 