A Caress of Twilight is the second novel in the Merry Gentry series by Laurell K. Hamilton . A faerie princess turned private investigator in a world where faeries are not only known to the general public , but are also fashionable , the title heroine is Princess Meredith NicEssus , also known as Merry Gentry . As niece to Andais , The Queen of Air and Darkness , she is a royal of the Unseelie Court . While her aunt tried to kill her as a child , she has since offered her the title as crown princess as the Court needs more heirs . A Caress of Twilight begins a few months after the events of A Kiss of Shadows . It is December , and Merry and the Sidhe warriors she has chosen as her lovers have returned to Los Angeles , California . Merry has resumed working for the Grey Detective Agency and several of the Sidhe have also joined the payroll . Merry is approached by Maeve Reed , previously known as Conchenn before her exile from the Seelie Court and now a famous Hollywood actress . Maeve asks Merry to perform a fertility rite that will permit her to have a child by her dying human husband . In return , she tells the princess that the reason for her exile was that she had refused to become the wife of Taranis , King of Light and Illusion , because she believed he was sterile . Galen , badly injured by the demi - fey during A Kiss of Shadows , has yet to heal , despite the usually phenomenal healing abilities of a sidhe warrior . Merry approaches the Queen of the Demi - Fey , Niceven , regarding a cure . The price of the cure and an alliance is a weekly drink of Merry 's blood by a surrogate to be chosen by Niceven . During Merry 's first night in bed with Doyle , they are interrupted by Andais who reveals that the Nameless has been freed . The worst of both courts , the Nameless was the last great spell that Seelie and Unseelie had cooperated upon . They had stripped themselves of everything too awful for them to be permitted to stay in the United States , and from it had been formed the Nameless . A strange murder brings members of the Grey Agency , including Merry , to the scene . However , their presence is challenged by others of the police force and they are thrown off site . However , this is not before they have a chance to suspect that supernatural forces are at work . It is suspected that the lives had been sucked from the murder victims by the ghosts of dead gods . Nothing is said to the police , however , as the only known person to work such a spell was a sidhe and , if it were discovered , that fact could result in all sidhe being banished from the country . Healed from his injuries by Niceven 's representative , Sage , Galen acts the part of the Green Man in the fertility ritual with Merry which results in Maeve Reed becoming pregnant . It begins to become clear that Taranis is also planning something as various social secretaries insist upon Merry attending first the Yule Ball and then a feast in her honour . This culminates in a conversation between Merry and Taranis himself . Finally , the Nameless attacks Maeve Reed 's home . 