A Case of Need is a mystery novel written by Michael Crichton under the pseudonym Jeffery Hudson . It was first published in 1968 and won an Edgar Award in 1969 . The novel is a medical thriller in which a Boston pathologist , Dr. John Berry , independently investigates the death of a young woman , Karen Randall . Berry becomes involved when his friend Dr. Arthur Lee is implicated in Karen 's death : Lee is accused of performing the abortion on Karen Randall that led to her death . Crichton 's later novels are preoccupied with technology : his novels can be extended examinations of the morality and implications of a particular innovation draped over the structure of a thriller novel . In A Case of Need , however , it is a medical practice and not a techological innovation that is at issue . The protagonist , Dr. John Berry , learns that his friend , an obstetrician named Arthur Lee , has been accused of performing an illegal abortion that led to the death of Karen Randall . Berry sets out to clear his friend of suspicion . Unfortunately for Lee and Berry , Lee is known in the medical community as an abortionist . Berry also has a personal stake in the outcome of the case : Berry helps Lee disguise medical samples to hide the fact that Lee 's dilation and curettage patients were pregnant . In the course of his investigation , Berry runs up against the powerful Randall family , an established Boston medical dynasty . He also gathers a portrait of Karen 's past , psychology , and character . The morality of abortion is the primary theme of the novel . Despite acknowledging the metaphysical arguments against abortion , Crichton never fully confronts them or attempts to disprove them . The tension between the arguments for and against abortion gives the book the gray - area milieu of a noir novel . A Case of Need has several similarities to a noir novel : its investigative structure ; the clean , utilitarian prose ; Dr. Berry 's encounters with Boston 's seamier inhabitants . In addition , Karen Randall 's heightened sexual activity can be seen as a reference to General Sternwood 's nymphomaniac daughter in Raymond Chandler 's classic novel , The Big Sleep . Racial politics is a less prominent but recurring theme . It appears almost immediately with the revelation that Arthur Lee is half - Chinese . Berry discovers later that Karen had sexual relationships with a Jewish athlete and a black musician , both taboo for a member of a white , conservative , established Boston family in the 1960s . Later , Lee 's attorney , George Wilson , is described as " a kind of freak , a product which society had suddenly deemed valuable , an educated Negro. " . 