A Christmas Carol in Prose , Being a Ghost Story of Christmas ( commonly known as A Christmas Carol ) is what Charles Dickens described as his " little Christmas Book " and was first published on December 19 , 1843 with illustrations by John Leech . The story was instantly successful , selling over six thousand copies in one week and , although originally written as a potboiler to enable Dickens to pay off a debt , the tale has become one of the most popular and enduring Christmas stories of all time . Contemporaries noted that the story 's popularity played a critical role in redefining the importance of Christmas and the major sentiments associated with the holiday . A Christmas Carol was written during a time of decline in the old Christmas traditions . A Christmas Carol is a Victorian morality tale of an old and bitter miser , Ebenezer Scrooge , who undergoes a profound experience of redemption over the course of one evening . Mr Scrooge is a financier / money - changer who has devoted his life to the accumulation of wealth . He holds anything other than money in contempt , including friendship , love and the Christmas season . In keeping with the musical analogy of the title , " A Christmas Carol " , Dickens divides his literary work into five " staves " instead of chapters . The story begins by establishing that Jacob Marley , Scrooge 's business partner in the firm of Scrooge & Marley , was dead—the narrative begins seven years after his death to the very day , Christmas Eve . Scrooge and his clerk , Bob Cratchit , are at work in the counting - house , with Cratchit stationed in the poorly heated " tank " , a victim of his employer 's stinginess . Scrooge 's nephew , Fred , enters to wish his uncle a " Merry Christmas " and invite him to Christmas dinner the next day . He is dismissed by his relative with " Bah ! . Humbug ! " among other unpleasantries . Two " portly gentlemen " , collecting charitable donations for the poor , come in afterwards , but they too are rebuffed by Scrooge , who points out that the Poor Laws and workhouses are sufficient to care for the poor . When Scrooge is told that many would rather die than go there , he mercilessly responds , " If they would rather die . . . they had better do it , and decrease the surplus population. " . At the end of the workday , Scrooge grudgingly allows Cratchit to take Christmas Day off , but to arrive to work all the earlier on the day after . Scrooge leaves the counting - house and eventually returns to his home , an isolated townhouse formerly owned by his late business partner , Jacob Marley . In keeping with his miserly character , Scrooge lives in a small suite of largely unfurnished rooms within the house which he keeps dark and cold ( the rest of the rooms in the building having been let as offices ) . While he unlocks his door Scrooge is startled to see the ghostly face of Marley instead of the familiar appearance of his door knocker . This is just the beginning of Scrooge 's harrowing night . A spectral hearse charging up the broad staircase in the dark , the sliding of bolts and slamming of doors elsewhere in the house , and the inexplicable ringing 