A City in Winter is a novel by Mark Helprin , first published in 1996 . Though considered a children 's novel , the book is mixture of war story and bureaucratic satire , telling the story of a 10 - year - old queen 's quest to regain her throne in a country that strongly parallels Russia at the beginning of the Russian Revolution of 1917 . All three books in this trilogy , Swan Lake , A City in Winter , and the final novel in the series , The Veil of Snows abound in winter season atmosphere and fairy tale magic . This imaginative novel continues the story of Swan Lake in which an unnamed country girl hears from her beloved tutor the story of a prince and his beautiful lover Odette who are usurped from their kingdom by evil forces . By the book 's end , the child has realized that she is the couple 's daughter , and therefore , the rightful heir to the throne . As A City in Winter begins , the youthful heir to the frosty kingdom is an adult , restored to the throne as queen . The story is told in flashback to her unborn child ; she recalls her return to the city at age ten , and tells how the restoration came about . The events center on the period when the heroine slipped into the enormous city of the usurper , and took a job as a yam curler in the palace . Interestingly , as the unnamed girl 's foe , the usurper is also never given a proper name : " His face was scarred and twisted , his towering form draped in black robes that flew in his wake like the wings of a crow that dies in midair and cartwheels to the ground . The girl finds in his capitol a million loyalists and former soldiers , all united by an oath of rebellion , waiting for a leader whose prophetic return will be heralded by a dimmed sun and a burning angel . In her quest to remove the usurper , the main character befriends a number of these outwardly obedient , inwardly rebellious people , including the baker - slave Notorincus and his slave - of - a - slave , Astrahn , a former general and reknown tactician , who brave terrifying odds with humor and selflessness to protect the protagonist . For example , Notorincus reveals his cry of battle to be “I’ll never bake another waffle - torte for a single imperial soldier as long as I live ! " . While the young girl does eventually regain the palace , her victory does not come without sacrifice . Near the novel 's end , the child 's tutor arrives in the city to aid her , and knowing that the citizens will not accept her as queen without the prophetic appearance of a burning angel . In a sequence of events that forces the audience to question whether or not A City in Winter should be considered a children 's novel , the tutor douses himself with , lights a match , and as the people of the city watch , throws himself from an enormous tower to the city square below . It is not until this final act that the 10 - year old girl is able to open the doors of the palace to find the city bowing before her . 