A Clergyman 's Daughter is a novel by George Orwell . This book was not very popular in comparison to other Orwell novels . It details the trials and tribulations of Dorothy Hare , a young woman whose sad existence , devoted to ' good works ' , is turned upside down . She lives with her father , a local clergyman , and acts as his unpaid servant in all matters both domestic and professional . This book shows , to great effect , how scandal can affect prominent community members . Dorothy goes " missing " after she kisses the village 's most disreputable character , Mr. Warburton . It is rumoured that she has eloped with Warburton , when in fact she has only experienced a " loss of memory " . During her time as a ' missing person ' she is forced to steal and beg and pick hops for a meager wage . These elements are informed by Orwell 's own experience with homelessness and poverty as described in Down and Out in Paris and London . Dorothy is eventually set up with a job as a schoolteacher by her father 's mysterious wealthy cousin , in a small private ' academy ' - an experience that also parallels Orwell 's own life . From here , she is ' rescued ' back to her old life in a twist of events that is triggered by the libelous Mrs. Semprill ( who caused the rumoured scandal to be transmitted to the papers ) being charged with libel as a result of another rumour spread . With Mrs. Sempril dishonoured , Mr. Warburton finds Dorothy and brings her back to Knype Hill , the small town where her father is a Rector . In the process of bringing her home , Warburton proposes to Dorothy and is rejected , despite his efforts to convince her that with her religious faith lost , her existence as a hard - working clergyman 's daughter will be rendered meaningless and that marriage , while she is still young , is the only escape of a life of hardship , loneliness , meaninglessness and eventual helpless poverty . The most important thing to note about Dorothy 's experiences as a Rector 's daughter , a tramp , a hoppicker , a beggar at Trafalgar Square , and a school teacher , is that they all describe an extreme helplessness . This theme of helplessness and dependency is one that Orwell has developed thoroughly , leaving the reader sympathizing greatly for our protagonist and wondering at every turn how she bears it . This is especially the case with Mrs. Creevy who has no respect for Dorothy and treats her almost as sub - human . The theme of slavery is one that mirrors that of dependency . Dorothy is economically pressed to work extremely hard . Her meager earnings , in all cases , restrict her escape and function to perpetuate her dependent state . Orwell draws a picture of systematic forces that preserve the bound servitude in each scenario . He brilliantly uses Dorothy 's fictitious endeavors strongly to critique certain institutions . In the case of the hop harvest Orwell critiques the fashion in which wages are systematically lowered as the season progressed and why the wages are so low to begin with . He describes the life a manual labourer with striking accuracy , right down to the constant state of exhaustion that somehow eliminates any potential for a questioning of the circumstances in which one 