For the film , see A Clockwork Orange ( film ) . For other uses , see Clockwork Orange ( disambiguation ) . A Clockwork Orange is a speculative fiction novel by Anthony Burgess , published in 1962 , and was later the basis for a 1971 film adaptation by Stanley Kubrick . The novel was chosen by TIME Magazine as one of the 100 best English - language novels from 1923 to the present . Due to his time serving in the British Colonial Office in Malaysia , Burgess thought that the phrase could be used punningly to refer to a mechanically responsive ( clockwork ) human ( orang , Malay for " person " ) . It is possible , however , that Burgess invented the phrase as a play upon the expression " a work of pith and moment " . Burgess wrote in his later ( Nov . 1986 ) introduction , titled A Clockwork Orange Resucked , that a creature who can only perform good or evil is " a clockwork orange — meaning that he has the appearance of an organism lovely with color and juice , but is in fact only a clockwork toy to be wound up by God or the Devil ; or the almighty state. " . In his essay " Clockwork Oranges " ² , Burgess asserts that " this title would be appropriate for a story about the application of Pavlovian , or mechanical , laws to an organism which , like a fruit , was capable of colour and sweetness " . This title alludes to the protagonist 's negatively conditioned responses to feelings of evil which prevent the exercise of his free will . A Clockwork Orange is written in first person perspective from a seemingly biased and unreliable source . Alex never justifies his actions in the narration , giving a good sense that he is somewhat sincere ; a narrator who , as unlikeable as he may attempt to seem , evokes pity from the reader through the telling of his unending suffering and later through his realization that the cycle will never end . Alex 's perspective is effective in that the way that he describes events is easy to relate to even if the situations themselves are not . He uses words that are common in speech as well as Nadsat , the speech of the younger generation . Set in a dystopian future , the novel opens with the introduction of protagonist , fifteen - year - old Alex , who , with his gang members ( known as " droogs " ) Dim , Georgie , and Pete , roam the streets at night , committing violent crimes ( " ultraviolence " ) for enjoyment . Essentially , the first part of the novel is a character study of the protagonist . We learn that Alex is articulate and clever , enjoys classical music ( that particularly of Beethoven ) and finds amusement during the evenings in committing crimes and acts of sexual violence — justifying himself through his narrative voice . We learn that Alex and his " droogs " have their own language known as Nadsat , and their own hierarchy , in which Alex is the leader . There is a general disregard for the law and for older generations — creating an image of a youth movement that is taking control of this fictional future . Part 1 involves Alex reflecting on his illegal activity ( which involves the rape of two 10 - year - 