A Cool Million : The Dismantling of Lemuel Pitkin is Nathanael West 's third novel , published in 1934 . It is a brutal farce of Horatio Alger 's novels and their eternal optimism . A Cool Million , as its subtitle suggests , presents “the dismantling of Lemuel Pitkin , ” piece by piece . As a satire of the Horatio Alger myth of success , the novel is evocative of Voltaire’s Candide , which satirized the philosophical optimism of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and Alexander Pope . Pitkin is a typical ‘Schlemiel’ , stumbling from one situation to the next ; he gets robbed , cheated , unjustly arrested , frequently beaten and exploited . In a parallel plot Betty Prail , Pitkin 's love interest , is raped , abused , and sold into prostitution . Over the course of the novel Pitkin manages to lose an eye , his teeth , his thumb , his scalp and his leg , but nevertheless retains his optimism and gullibility to the inevitably bitter end . Pitkin’s troubles , however , do n't end with his death . Even after his passing he is exploited as a martyr by the ‘National Revolutionary party’ , a political organization led by Shagpoke Whipple , a manipulative former American president . Pitkin 's birthday becomes a national holiday and American youths march down the streets singing songs in his honor . The novel ends with a series of roaring " hails " from the crowd . Pitkin 's pathetic inability to conform to society’s standards , or to the ‘American’ way of life , is the main cause of his repeated failures . Suppose he had the Horatio Alger slant and was a guy who was trying to get one foot on the ladder of success and they were always moving the ladder on him , but they couldn’t touch the dream . West , in providing a parody of Alger , has abandoned his style completely , utilizing a prose style that , at certain points , seems lifted almost intact from Alger novels . The problem that arises from this deliberate lack of an ironic wink is of uncertainty ; at times West is so somber and monotonous in tone we might think that he is serious . In A Cool Million , West presents Italian kidnappers , Chinese pimps , brutal Irish cops , and greedy Jewish lawyers . Though most critics dismiss the novel as too direct of a parody to have any real literary merit , Harold Bloom includes A Cool Million in his list of canonical works of the period he names the Chaotic Age ( 1900 - present ) in The Western Canon . Bloom also deems the rhetoric used by Shagpoke Whipple as prophetic of such presidents as Ronald Reagan . West began writing A Cool Million in the fall of 1933 . A handwritten first draft was completed in November . Though Harcourt , Brace rejected the novel , West continued to work on it until it was finally accepted by Covici - Friede in March 1934 The novel was published in New York in an edition of 3,000 copies to mixed reviews and poor sales ; it was not reprinted in West 's lifetime . The novel later appeared in several reprints , following West 's renewed fame , and was collected in a single volume edition of the complete novels , as well as in the Library of America edition of West 's collected works . Novels & Other Writings . Ed. 