A Contract with God ( full title A Contract with God , and Other Tenement Stories ) is a graphic novel by Will Eisner that takes the form of several stories on a theme . Published by Baronet Books ( ISBN 0 - 89437 - 035 - 9 ) in October 1978 in simultaneous hardcover and trade paperback editions — the former limited to a signed - and - numbered print - run of 1,500 — it is often erroneously called the first graphic novel , or the first work to describe itself as such . It is nonetheless an early landmark of the form , and critically lauded in its own right . Now published by DC Comics , the book was reissued in 2001 ( ISBN 1 - 56389 - 674 - 5 ) . It runs 196 pages . The work consists of four short stories — " Cookalein " , " The Super " , " The Street Singer " , and " A Contract With God " — all set in a Bronx tenement in the 1930s , with the first story also taking place at a summer getaway for Jews . The stories are semi - autobiographical , with Eisner drawing heavily on his own childhood experiences as well as those of his contemporaries . Utilizing his talents for expressive lettering and cartoonish figures , he links the narratives by the common setting and the common theme of immigrant and first - generation experiences , across cultures . While A Contract with God is not the first graphic novel , and nor is it the first to use the term , it is recognized by comic book industry and by literary critics as the standard bearer . It created in its wake a deeper understanding of the medium 's worth and wide storytelling potential . It also served as an inspiration to younger creators , who in turn further developed the format . This has led to the acceptance of the graphic novel as a viable literary and commercial format for artistic expression . Eisner 's initial attempt at a contained work of sequential art , while not inventing the form — and possibly by dint of being the right book at the right time , with another groundbreaking work , Sabre coincidentally published the same month — helped to popularize it and bring critical attention to a ghettoized medium . Eisner saw the book as important in moving the comics form forward. " In hindsight , " he wrote in the first edition 's introduction , " I realize I was really only working around one core concept — that the medium , the arrangement of words and pictures in sequence , was an art form in itself . Unique , with a structure and gestalt of its own , this medium could deal with meaningful themes. " . In the introduction , Eisner cited as inspiration the 1930s books of Lynd Ward , who produced complete novels in woodcuts . I consider my efforts in this area attempts at expansion or extension of Ward 's original premise. " . The book 's genesis was twofold . The first inspiration , Eisner said , came after he'd attended his first comic - book convention in the mid - 1970s , and met that generation 's fans and creators . They would want something more than two heroes , two supermen , crashing against each other . I began working on a book that dealt with a subject that I felt had never been 