A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur 's Court is an 1889 novel by American humorist and writer Mark Twain . The work is a very early example of time travel in literature , anticipating by six years H. G. Wells ' The Time Machine of 1895 ( however , unlike Wells , Twain does not give any real explanation of his protagonist 's travelling in time ) . Some early editions are entitled A Yankee at the Court of King Arthur . The novel tells the tale of Hank Morgan , a 19th century citizen of Hartford , Connecticut who awakens to find himself inexplicably transported back in time to early medieval England at the time of the legendary King Arthur in AD 528 . Twain describes King Arthur and his court as English , although the mythological king was Celtic . Hank uses his comprehensive technological knowledge and Yankee ingenuity to modernize the superstitious , brutal and ignorant old English society and advance himself . While successfully printing newspapers , mounting soap advertisements on knights and initiating industrialization , Hank 's efforts are eventually undone by entrenched power embodied in the Roman Catholic Church . Modern society 's own darker side is finally exhibited as Hank and his cadre of specially indoctrinated teenagers use gatling guns and electric fences to butcher tens of thousands of knights from an entrenched bunker . With Hank 's technologies expunged , Merlin , portrayed previously as an utter charlatan , somehow transports him back to the present . With its anachronistic technology , such as the telegraph , bicycle , etc. , the book has a claim to being the first steampunk tale . It is also recognized as one of the first time travel stories ever written , and is the first time travel story in which the character goes backwards in time . For example , the book portrays the medieval English as being very gullible , as when Merlin makes a " veil of invisibility " , which according to him will make the wearer imperceptible to his enemies , though friends can still see him . The knight Sir Sagramor wears it to fight Hank , who pretends he cannot see Sagramor for effect to the audience . The very bludgeoning to which the ideals are exposed makes the satire less than effective . Hank describes himself as void of sentiment and poetry , acts in a rather Philistine manner , and despite being swept centuries into the past and across the ocean , refuses to believe that magic exists . Being unwilling to yield , he is unable to compromise with Camelot on anything , leading to chaos , and in the end , though he characterizes Merlin as a ' doddering old fool ' , Merlin is able to send him back with a few passes in the air . This famous story has been adapted to stage , feature - length motion pictures , and animated cartoons numerous times since the beginning of the 20th century . It was made into the 1929 musical A Connecticut Yankee by Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart . In 1931 , it was made into a film , A Connecticut Yankee , starring Will Rogers . In 1949 , a new musical film appeared Bing Crosby and Rhonda Fleming , this time with music composed by James Van Heusen and Victor Young . In 1970 , the book was adapted into an animated 74 - minute tv special of the same name directed by Zoran Janjic . It has also 