A Darkling Plain ( ISBN 0 - 439 - 94997 - 1 ) is the fourth and final book in the Hungry City Chronicles series written by author Philip Reeve . The novel won the 2006 Guardian Award . The book is set six months after Infernal Devices . Wren Natsworthy and her father Tom Natsworthy have taken to the skies in their airship , the Jenny Haniver . Wren is enjoying life as an aviatrix , Tom misses Hester , and has been informed by a doctor that his weak heart means he only has a few years left to live . The Lost Boy Fishcake is secretly repairing the Stalker Fang , coming to regard her as the mother he never had . Theo Ngoni has returned to Zagwa and rejoined his family . The title is derived from Matthew Arnold 's poem Dover Beach . Where ignorant armies clash by night . This relates to the novel in several ways . The characters are indeed swept about , often against their will , by the " ignorant armies " of the Green Storm and Traktionstadtsgesellschaft , on the " darkling plain " of the Great Hunting Ground . Reeve references his choice of title himself towards the end of the book when the character Nimrod Pennyroyal writes a book within a book titled " Ignorant Armies. " . Meanwhile , Theo Ngoni foils an attempt to murder the now Oenone Naga , General Naga 's wife . Oenone suspects that the murder attempt was organised by factions in the Green Storm still loyal to the Stalker Fang . Theo is made commander of an airship that will secretly deliver Lady Naga back home to Batmunkh Gompa . While flying across the Sahara Desert it is revealed that one of Oenone 's retinue is really Cynthia Twite , a secret agent for the Stalker Fang first encountered in Infernal Devices . After murdering the pilot , Twite attempts to kill Naga but is foiled by Theo . She escapes from the airship before a bomb she planted explodes . Theo and Oenone are assumed dead . Meanwhile , Tom and Wren encounter a face from the past : Clytie Potts , a historian from London who Tom had assumed perished on the night MEDUSA exploded . She goes by a different name and claims to have never met Tom , but he is unsatsified and follows her to the cities of the Traktionstadtsgesellschaft . Manchester has recently arrived and is encouraging the German cities to abandon the peace treaty and attack the Green Storm again . Here they also encounter Professor Pennyroyal , who assures them that nobody could have survived the destruction of MEDUSA . A young German soldier named Wolf Kobold , however , claims to have seen Potts ' airship flying east towards the ruins of London . He tells them of how he once crash - landed in London and witnessed strange activity . Wolf suspects there are survivors living in the ruins of London , who are working on something secret . Tom and Wren agree to travel with him in his burrowing predator suburb Harrowbarrow to investigate . Meanwhile , Hester Shaw and Shrike have been travelling the Sahara for six months , where they have a chance encounter with Theo . Following the crash , he and Oenone were taken as slaves by a desert town . Hester rescues Theo and shoots several guards . They escape onboard Hester and Shrike 's sand - ship , killing their pursuers . Theo 