A Dance with Dragons is the fifth of seven planned novels in the epic fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire by American author George R. R. Martin . Despite original predictions of possible completion in late 2006 , Martin has , as of early 2007 , ceased to offer an expected publication date , and has reported , as of February 15 , 2007 , that the book remains as yet incomplete , reiterating that he will not be reporting on the state of its completion until it is finished . However , at ComiCon 2006 , George R. R. Martin says that is not necessarily what the title is referring to . A Dance of Dragons was originally the title of the second novel in the sequence , when Martin still envisaged the series as a trilogy . Some early US editions of A Game of Thrones list A Dance of Dragons as the forthcoming second volume in the series . It was also the original planned title for the fourth novel . A Dance with Dragons is set in a fictitious world reminiscent of Medieval Europe ( primarily on a continent called Westeros ) , except for the fact that in this world , seasons can last for years , occasionally decades . A Dance with Dragons picks up where A Storm of Swords left off and runs simultaneously with events in A Feast for Crows . The War of the Five Kings seems to be winding down . In the North , King Stannis Baratheon has installed himself at the Wall and vowed to win the support of the northmen to continue his struggle to claim the Iron Throne , although this is complicated by the fact that much of the west coast is under occupation by the ironborn . On the Wall itself Jon Snow has been elected the 998th Lord Commander of the Night 's Watch , but has enemies both in the Watch and beyond the Wall to watch for . Tyrion Lannister has been taken by ship across the Narrow Sea to Pentos , but his eventual goals are unknown even to him . In the far east , Daenerys Targaryen has conquered the city of Meereen , but has decided to stay and rule the city , honing her skills of leadership which will be needed when she travels on to Westeros . But Daenerys ' presence is now known to many in Westeros , and from the Iron Islands and Dorne , from Oldtown and the Free Cities , emissaries are on their way to find her and use her cause for their own ends . . . Note : Some excerpts are currently available as sample chapters on George R. R. Martin 's website . The tale is told through the eyes of 9 POV characters and , as with previous volumes , a one - off prologue POV . Jon Snow , the Lord Commander of the Night 's Watch . Tyrion Lannister , a fugitive wanted for kinslaying and regicide , lately fled from the Seven Kingdoms . Ser Davos Seaworth , King 's Hand to Stannis Baratheon . Daenerys Targaryen , sole heir to the Targaryen dynasty who ruled Westeros for 300 years until their deposition 15 years prior to the first novel . Called Stormborn , the Unburnt , the Mother of Dragons , and self - proclaimed Queen of Westeros , now ruling the city of Meereen . Bran Stark , rightful heir to the late Robb Stark , in hiding beyond the 