A Deepness in the Sky is a science fiction novel by Vernor Vinge . Published in 1999 the novel is a loose prequel ( set twenty thousand years earlier ) to his earlier novel A Fire Upon the Deep ( 1992 ) . The title is coined by one of the main characters in a debate , in a reference to the hibernating habits of his species and to the vastness of space . The book deals with the discovery of an intelligent alien species on a planet orbiting the bizarre , appropriately named OnOff star , which spends 215 of every 250 years almost completely dormant , releasing almost no energy . During this period , the planet freezes and its fauna goes into hibernation . The planet 's inhabitants , named " Spiders " by the humans for their resemblance to arachnids , have reached a stage of technological development very similar to that of Earth 's humans in the early 20th century . Two human expeditions set out to trade / exploit the situation : the Qeng Ho traders ( pronounced , named after Zheng He and his expeditions ) ; and the Emergents of the Emergency , an autocratic culture that literally enslaves selected human minds . The Qeng Ho arrive at the On / Off star shortly before the Emergent fleet , several decades before the sun turns on , at which point the Spider civilization will " wake up " and continue its climb into a technological civilization . A reception held by the Emergents doubles as a vector to infect the Qeng Ho with a timed " mindrot " virus . The Emergents time an ambush to take advantage of the onset of symptoms . The mindrot virus had originally manifested itself on the Emergents ' colony world , and they now use it both as a weapon , and as a tool for mental domination . Emergent culture uses mindrot primarily in the form of a variant which technicians can manipulate in order to release neurotoxins to specific parts of the brain . An active MRI - type device triggers changes through dia - and paramagnetic biological molecules . By manipulating the brain in this way , Emergent managers induce a state they call Focus , in which Focused persons become completely obsessed with a single idea or speciality , essentially turning them into brilliant appliances . Many Qeng Ho become Focused against their will , and the Emergents retain the rest of the population under mass surveillance , with only a portion of the crew awake and not in suspended animation . The Qeng Ho trading culture gradually starts to dilute this totalitarian régime , by demonstrating to the Emergents certain benefits of tolerated and restricted free trade ; the two human cultures merge to some extent over the decades of forced co - operation . The book discusses some of the problems of trying to maintain an interstellar trading culture without access to superluminal travel or to superluminal communication . Time - measurement details provide an interesting concept in the book : the Qeng Ho measure time primarily in terms of seconds , since the notion of days , months , and years has no usefulness between various star systems . The timekeeping system , uses terms such as kiloseconds and megaseconds . An interesting feature of the Qeng Ho 's computer , and hence , timekeeping , systems is the " programmer archaeologists " : the Qeng Ho are packrats of computer programs and systems , retaining them over 