A Division of the Spoils is the 1975 novel by Paul Scott that concludes his Raj Quartet . The novel is set in the British Raj . It follows on from the storyline in the The Jewel in the Crown , The Day of the Scorpion , and The Towers of Silence . Many of the events are retellings from different points of view of events that happened in the previous novels . Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great , and he shall divide the spoil with the strong ; because he hath poured out his soul unto death : and he was numbered with the transgressors ; and he bare the sin of many , and made intercession for the transgressors . Pride goeth before destruction , and an haughty spirit before a fall . Better it is to be of an humble spirit with the lowly than to divide the spoil with the proud . The story is set in 1945 and 1947 in several locations throughout India , prior to and after Indian independence , particularly in an unnamed British province of India . The province , which is located in northern India , shares characteristics with Punjab and the United Provinces . The names of places and people suggest a connection to Bengal ; however , the physical characteristics place the setting in north - central India , rather than in northeast India . The province has an agricultural plain and , in the north , a mountainous region . The capital of the province is Ranpur . Another large city in the province is Mayapore , which was the key setting in The Jewel in the Crown . The princely state of Mirat is a nominally sovereign enclave within the province . Pankot is a " second class " hill station in the province which serves as a headquarters for the 1st Pankot Rifles , an important regiment of the Indian Army , who fought the Axis in North Africa . During the cool season , the regiment moves to Ranpur , on the plains . At Premanagar there is an old fortification that is used by the British as a prison . Another town , Muzzafirabad is the headquarters of the Muzzafirabad ( " Muzzy " ) Guides , another Indian Army regiment . Other towns in the province are Tanpur and Nansera . The new man on the scene is Sergeant Guy Perron , once a pupil of a posh public school called Chillingborough which Hari Kumar ( as Harry Coomer ) also attended when he lived in England . It was he who returned in 1947 / 8 to be an observer of India on the eve of Independence ; this assignment soon turns into a personal inquiry into the truth behind the hushed - up story of Lieutenant - Colonel Ronald Merrick 's death in Mirat . The tragic consequences of India - Pakistan Partition are dramatized in a horrific train massacre . Perron serves as an intelligence operative in the Indian Army . He comes from the middle class , having attended Chillingborough and Cambridge University , which is unusual for an enlisted soldier . Perron is a scholar of Indian language and history and uses his time to observe and study . 