A Dog of Flanders is a novel about a boy Nello and his dog Patrache written by Marie Louise de la Ramée under the pseudonym Ouida in 1872 . It is widely read in Japan , and has among others been made into an animated cartoon . The story is little known in Belgium , and then primarily because of the tourists it attracts to Antwerp ; to accommodate Japanese tourists , there is a small statue of Nello and Patrache in the Antwerp suburb of Hoboken . In the 19th century , a boy named Nello became an orphan at the age of two when his mother died in the Ardennes . His grandfather , Johan Daas , lived in a small village , Hoboken near the city of Antwerp took him in . One day , Nello found a dog , who was almost beaten to death , and named him Patrasche . Due to the good care of Johan , the dog recovered from his wounds and from then on were Nello and Patrasche inseparable.Since they were very poor , Nello had to help his grandfather financially by selling milk . Patrasche helped him pull the milk cart that Nello used to sell milk in the town . Nello had a friend , Aloise , the daughter of a well - off man in the village . The father did n't want his daughter to have a poor sweetheart . Although Nello was illiterate , he was very talented in drawing . He participated in a junior drawing contest in Antwerp , hoping that he could win the first prize , which was 200 francs per year . As he had no place to stay , Nello wanted to go to the cathedral of Antwerp and see Rubens 's The Elevation of the Cross . But he did n't have enough money to enter . In the night of Christmas Eve , he and Patrasche went to Antwerp and , by chance , found the door to the church open , where he found the painting he loved . The next morning the villagers found a boy with his dog frozen to death in front of the triptych . A Dog of Flanders ( 1914 ) , directed by Howell Hansel . A Dog of Flanders ( 1935 ) , directed by Edward Sloman . A Dog of Flanders ( 1960 ) , directed by James B. Clark . Flanders no Inu , Boku no Patrasche ( Japan , 1992 ) A remake of Flanders no Inu produced by Tokyo Movie Shinsha . A Dog of Flanders ( 1999 ) , directed by Kevin Brodie . 