A Dying Light in Corduba is a crime novel by Lindsey Davis . Set in Rome and Imperial Spain during the spring and summer of AD 73 , A Dying Light in Corduba stars Marcus Didius Falco , Informer and Imperial Agent . It is the eighth in her Falco series . The title refers to the setting of much of the action , Corduba , as well as to the olive oil which features so heavily , one use of which is for lamp oil . The Society of Olive Oil Producers of Baetica is throwing a big dinner party in Rome , trying to drum up business for their product . Falco is invited at the request of Claudius Laeta , Vespasian’s top clerk . The food , the garum and the dancing girl make a big impression on Falco . When two guests at a dinner are assaulted , one fatally , Falco realizes that being at the dinner was just the start of another job . The surviving victim , Anacrites , is Falco 's rival and Vespasian 's Chief Spy . Falco is asked to investigate the attack on Anacrites and its possible connection to an attempt to corner the market on Spanish olive oil . Trying to keep Anacrites safe , he moves him to the one place where no one will look , and if they do , they will regret it ; his mother’s house . Soon , Falco is on his way to Hispania to track down some of the guests and that memorable dancer . Laeta hints that someone is looking to corner the market on Hispania’s olive oil production . Suspicion immediately falls on Quinctius Attractus , the host of the festivities that fatal evening . This is an assignment Falco does not take solo ; he is bringing his very pregnant companion , Helena Justina . Helena 's father Camillus Verus happens to own a small estate in Baetica , and her brother Aelianus has just returned for serving there , so he and Helena have a perfect excuse to show up . And Helena has made it very clear that Falco will be there for the birth of his child . Falco soon discovers , among other things , Quinctius Attractus , owns one of the largest estates in the region , producing massive quantities of olive oil . He also learns that against his initial suspicions , there does not appear to be much interest in cornering any market , at least on the part of the Baeticans . This does not mean the investigation is over ; there is still the assault to solve , and pesky dancer is still on the loose . Helena becomes friendly with the daughters of two local magnates , Claudia Rufina and Aelia Annaea . Falco gets to know some of the sons , including Claudia’s brother Constans . Also appearing is Attractus’ son Quadratus , the new quaestor of Baetica . That one item alone keeps Falco on guard . While concluding the interviews of the dinner guests , Falco finally catches up with the dancer , Selia , who promptly tries to kill him with the help of her band . Before she strikes the final blow , she reveals that Laeta sent her too , not to find the killer , but to stop anyone following , a classic double cross . Now Falco knows all , or nearly all . Falco manages to escape , but fails to catch Selia . He rushes home to 