A Farewell to Arms is a semi - autobiographical novel written by Ernest Hemingway in 1929 . Much of the novel was written at the home of Hemingway 's in - laws in Piggott , Arkansas . Chapters 1 - 6The novel begins on the Italian - Austrian border during the First World War . The story is told in the first person . The narrator opens the story with a description of late summer in a small village near the mountains . There is a river and a plain beneath the mountains where the armies are fighting and at night the flashes from the artillery are visible in the village . The weather is pleasant and gradually changes from summer to autumn . Many troops and military vehicles pass through the village on their way to the front . Occasionally the Italian King passes through the village in his motorcar on the way to inspect his troops . The war goes badly for the Italians and then the winter rain brings a cholera epidemic . The narrator notes that " in the end only seven thousand died of it in the army. " . The following year the war goes better for the Italians and the narrator describes the fine house and the town of Gorzia where he resides during this period . Although only less than a mile from the fighting in the mountains , Gorzia has mostly been spared from destruction and swells with the increased wartime activity . It has cafes , hospitals and bordellos , one for enlisted and one for officers . Outside the town , however , there is much damage from battles . On the day of the first snowfall , which marks the end of the season for fighting , the narrator is walking in the remains of the forest . Later , he sits in the bordello for officers , drinking asti with a friend who , upon seeing the priest from their mess , jokingly indicates that the priest should join them . That evening , after the mess of spaghetti and red wine , the captain begins his regular harassment , or " priest - baiting " , of the priest . He accuses the priest of having been with girls and the priest , embarrassed , shakes his head . The captain makes a rude joke and comments that the Pope wants the Austrians to win the war . He declares himself to be an atheist and recommends an anti - Catholic book to the narrator . The narrator changes the subject and suggests that with the coming of the snow the fighting will cease for awhile . The major enthusiastically suggests that the narrator should go on leave and see some of the country . A lively discussion develops as to where the narrator should take his leave and the priest describes the simple pleasures to be found hunting in his native mountain village of Abruzzi . The captain begins a lewd finger - shadow game to illustrate the girls of Naples and the group elects to go the bordello . The narrator says goodnight to the priest before he leaves to join the others . The winter has passed when the narrator returns from his leave to find that his unit is still living in the same town . It is spring and the countryside is full of new life . The narrator notices that there are more artillery pieces placed around the town and that more of the buildings have been damaged by shellfire 