A Fire Upon the Deep ( 1992 ) is a science fiction novel written by Vernor Vinge . It combines superhuman intelligences , well - developed and believable aliens , variable physics , space battles , love , betrayal , genocide , Usenet , and more into an exceptional space opera . A Fire Upon the Deep won the Hugo Award in 1993 ( tied with Doomsday Book by Connie Willis ) . Besides the normal print book editions , the novel was also included on a CD - ROM sold by ClariNet Communications along with the other nominees for the 1993 Hugo awards . The CD - ROM edition included numerous annotations by Vinge on his thoughts and intentions about different parts of the book . Two major plotlines exist in the Fire ; both are triggered by the revival of a malevolent quasi - Power initially known as the " Straumli Realm Perversion " ( named after those responsible for its rebirth ) but known eventually , because of its cancerous methods and rate of growth , as the Blight . A human colony high in the Beyond had dispatched an expedition to the low Transcend ; they had learned of a massive 5 - billion year old archive of data which had been off the Known Net for all that time . It offers the possibility of unthinkable riches for the ambitious young Straumli Realm , and they dispatch a careful expedition of archaeologist programmers to open it up and discover its secrets . However , their most careful precautions are insufficient , and their facility , the High Lab is compromised : the embryonic Blight persuades them to create machines and activate programs they do not understand nor can guard against . Slowly , the Blight wakes up and grows and takes over the expedition . This intelligence is able to infiltrate and control computer systems and biological beings , quickly infecting and taking over whole civilizations in the High Beyond ( for an explanation of the Zones of Thought , see below ) . Unbeknownst to the young Blight , however , two programs , copies of the minds of two expedition members , have Transcended and lurk in the local net . Unable to stop the Blight , they settle instead for devising a risky scheme to activate the countermeasure against the Blight that the archive included . With some understanding of what they have unleashed , a few humans escape from the research colony before the Blight regains its full capabilities and absorbs it ; of the two vessels , only one successfully escapes . That vessel travels to the edge of the Slow Zone , where the Blight would have difficulty operating . They take with them some semi - living information about their enemy ( later labeled Countermeasure ) from the archive , though they do not know what to do with it . They land their sleeper ship , with a cargo of children in suspended animation , on a planet with a medieval civilization of dog - like creatures ( the Tines ) who exist as small packs of individuals . Each individual consciousness is generated by the " marriage " or enlistment of several Tines , who coordinate their thoughts via high - frequency sound . A single one is about as smart as a clever dog ; two to three can think as well as a young human child ; four to six is the standard and possess human or greater intelligence and self - awareness and 