A Fighting Man of Mars is an Edgar Rice Burroughs science fiction novel , the seventh of his famous Barsoom series . Burroughs began writing it on February 28 , 1929 , and the finished story was first published in Blue Book Magazine as a six - part serial in the issues for April to September , 1930 . It was later published as a complete novel by Metropolitan in May , 1931 . The story is purportedly relayed back to earth via the Gridley Wave , a sort of super radio frequency previously introduced in Tanar of Pellucidar , the third of Burrough 's Pellucidar novels , which thus provides a link between the two series . The story - teller is Ulysses Paxton , protagonist of the previous novel , The Master Mind of Mars , but this story is not about him ; rather , it is the tale of Tan Hadron of Hastor , a lowly , poor padwar ( a low - ranking officer ) who is in love with the beautiful , haughty Sanoma Tora , daughter of Tor Hatan , a minor but rich noble . As he is only a padwar , Sanoma spurns him . Then Sanoma Tora is kidnapped , and the novel moves into high gear . As Tan Hadron crosses Mars ( " Barsoom , " as Burroughs calls it ) searching for Sanoma Tora , he encounters some of Burroughs 's most ferocious beasts—huge , many - armed , flesh - eating white apes , gigantic spiders , and the insane cannibals of U - Gor . He also meets the mad scientist Phor Tak , who cackles " Heigh - oo ! " and is crazed with the desire for revenge . The initial simplicity of Burroughs ' well - worn pursuit plot is elaborated by Hadron 's rescue of an escaped slave , Tavia , from a band of six - limbed green Tharks , en route to the city of Jahar where Hadron believes Sanoma Tora has been taken . Tavia is an atypical Burroughs heroine ; depicted as self - reliant and competent with weapons , witty and intelligent , she compares favorably for both reader and Hadron with beautiful but shallow Sanoma Tora , who ultimately shows herself unworthy of the virtuous hero . With the addition of Nur An , a disaffected Jaharian warrior , and another escaped woman slave , Phao , Hadron 's quest becomes more collaborative than Burroughs ' usual , although Tavia , in an unsurprising plot development , is revealed to be a princess at the end . Burroughs , although a workman - like writer , was an imaginative one . His writings have influenced generations of writers and scientists , such as Carl Sagan . The copyright for this story has expired in Australia , and thus now resides in the public domain there . The text is available via Project Gutenberg Australia . Bleiler , Everett ( 1948 ) . The Checklist of Fantastic Literature . Chicago : Shasta Publishers , 66 . 