A Fine Balance is the third book by Rohinton Mistry . Set in Mumbai , India between 1975 and 1977 during the turmoil of The Emergency , a period of expanded government power and crackdowns on civil liberties , this book is about four characters from varied backgrounds—Dina Dalal , Ishvar Darji , his nephew Omprakash and the young lad Maneck—who come together , develop a bond and depart from each other 's lives as dramatically as they came . First published by McClelland and Stewart in 1995 , it won the Giller Prize . In 2001 it was selected for Oprah 's Book Club . It was shortlisted for the Booker Prize in 1996 . It was one of the selected books in the 2002 edition of Canada Reads , championed by actor Megan Follows . An acclaimed stage - adaptation of the novel by the Tamasha Theatre Company was produced at the Hampstead Theatre in 2006 and later revived in 2007 . The book exposes the changes in Indian society from independence in 1947 to the Emergency called by Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi . Mistry is generally critical of Gandhi in the book . Interestingly , however , Gandhi is never referred to by name by any of the characters , and is instead called simply " the prime minister " . The characters , from diverse backgrounds , are all brought together by economic forces changing India . Ishvar and Om 's family are part of the Chamaar caste , who traditionally cured leather and were considered untouchable . In an attempt to break away from the restrictive caste system , Ishvar 's father apprentices his sons to a tailor , and they became tailors . As a result of their skills , passed on to Ishvar 's brother 's son , they move to Mumbai to get work , by then unavailable in the town near their village because a pre - made clothing shop has opened . Maneck , from a small hill village in northern India , moves to the city to acquire a college diploma " as a back up " in case his father 's business is no longer able to compete after the building of a highway near their village . Dina , from a traditionally wealthy family , maintains tenuous independence from her brother by living in the flat of her deceased husband . Ashraf Chacha ( Dukhi 's friend . The novel is notable for its ending , which is far from happy . Over the course of the novel , each character is subjected to intense physical , mental , and emotional pain at the hands of sinister strangers . This culminates in the ending , where Ishvar 's legs are forced to be amputated , Omprakash is castrated and his legs and body swell up greatly from the hormone changes caused by the operation , and Maneck , overcome by how his two friends ended up , steps in front of a speeding train in the middle of a crowded train station . It is interesting to note that the characters that are able to maintain a ' fine balance ' in life are the ones that survive the ending . Mistry steers the novel around the types of balances that the characters maintain in their life and outcomes that they meet at the end . 