T. Coraghessan Boyle 's novel A Friend of the Earth ( 2000 ) is a story of environmental destruction . The novel is set in 2025 ; as a result of global warming and the greenhouse effect , the climate has drastically changed , and , accordingly , biodiversity is a thing of the past . Due to habitat loss , many animal species have become extinct , but also the flora has considerably suffered . Many foods , including beef , eggs , beer , etc. , are no longer readily available . Instead , rice is grown everywhere , and sake is the only alcoholic beverage available . Other vegetables are grown in domed fields . El Niño has become an everyday companion of the inhabitants of the United States : strong winds are continuously blowing , and there is heavy rainfall for several months every year . In the dry season , it is unbearably hot . Deforestation has occurred for two reasons : ( a ) the storms , which have uprooted whole forests ; and , ( b ) the timber industry 's limitless destruction of primeval forests all over the world , including the tropical rainforest . On top of it all , modern science has invented many artificial ways to prolong human life ( for example , there are TV ads for organ transplants ) , and longevity among humans is now a fact with life expectancy having climbed to over the 100 - year mark . Consequently , the world is massively overpopulated . In the U.S.A. , what used to be unspoiled nature is now residential areas , with condominiums having sprung up everywhere . Inside these condos , people who do not care about the environment live their lives in front of their computers and televisions . At no point in the novel does Boyle enter into a discussion of the political situation , but there are various hints hidden in the text which tell us that the social security system has crumbled and that many older Americans are left to their own devices , without a regular income , many of them seemingly even without a roof over their heads . A Friend of the Earth is the story of Tyrone O'Shaughnessy Tierwater , a U.S. citizen born in 1950 , half Irish Catholic and half Jewish ( " I'm a mess and I know it . Jewish guilt , Catholic guilt , enviro - eco - capitalistico guilt : I ca n't even expel gas in peace. " ) , whose personal tragedy fits in with , and adds to , the gloomy atmosphere created in the novel . Egged on by Andrea , the woman he loves , he becomes a committed " Earth Forever ! " activist ( an allusion to the radical environmental group Earth First ! ) in the 1980s , is imprisoned for ecotage , but eventually cannot change anything . On top of that , he suffers the loss of his first wife when their daughter is only three and of his daughter when she is only 25 . When the novel opens , Tierwater is a 75 - year - old disillusioned ex - con living on the estate of a famous pop star somewhere in California and looking after the latter 's private menagerie . Maclovio Pulchris , the singer , has had the idea of preserving some of the last surviving animals of several species in order to initiate a captive breeding programme at some later point in time 