A Game of Thrones is the first of seven planned novels in A Song of Ice and Fire , an epic fantasy series by American author George R. R. Martin . It was first published on 6 August 1996 . The novel was nominated for the 1998 Nebula Award and the 1997 World Fantasy Award , and won the 1997 Locus Award . The novella Blood of the Dragon , comprising the Daenerys Targaryen chapters from the novel , won the 1997 Hugo Award for Best Novella . The novel lends its name to several spin - off items based on the novels , including a trading card game , board game and roleplaying game . A Game of Thrones is set in the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros , a land reminiscent of Medieval Europe . In Westeros the seasons last for years , sometimes decades , at a time . Fifteen years prior to the novel , the Seven Kingdoms were torn apart by a civil war , known alternately as " Robert 's Rebellion " and the " War of the Usurper. " Prince Rhaegar Targaryen kidnapped Lyanna Stark , arousing the ire of her family and of her betrothed , Lord Robert Baratheon ( the war 's titular rebel ) . The Mad King , Aerys II Targaryen , had Lyanna 's father and eldest brother executed when they demanded her safe return . Her second brother , Eddard , joined his boyhood friend Robert Baratheon and Jon Arryn , with whom they had been fostered as children , in declaring war against the Targaryens , securing the allegiances of House Tully and House Arryn through a network of dynastic marriages ( Lord Eddard to Catelyn Tully and Lord Jon Arryn to Lysa Tully ) . The powerful House Tyrell continued to support the King , but House Lannister and House Martell both dragged their feet due to insults against their houses by the King . The civil war climaxed with the Battle of the Trident , when Prince Rhaegar was killed in battle by Robert Baratheon . The Lannisters finally agreed to support King Aerys , but then brutally turned against him , sacking the capital at King 's Landing . Jaime Lannister of the Kingsguard executed King Aerys and House Lannister swore loyalty to Robert Baratheon . The Tyrells and remaining royalists surrendered and Robert Baratheon was declared King of the Seven Kingdoms . Unfortunately , during the war , Lyanna Stark had died , apparently of illness ; Robert Baratheon instead married Cersei Lannister to cement the alliance . Despite Robert 's victory , the Mad King 's youngest son Viserys and youngest daughter Daenerys were taken to safety across the sea by loyal retainers . After the war House Martell chose a path of isolation , since Prince Doran 's sister Elia ( Prince Rhaegar 's wife ) and her young children had been killed by Lannister armsmen during the storming of the capital . Six years later King Robert proved his resolve by defeating a rebellion by Lord Balon Greyjoy of the Iron Islands . Balon 's two eldest sons were killed and his youngest son , Theon , was given to the care of Eddard Stark as a ward . A Game of Thrones follows three principal storylines as they develop in tandem with one another . The novel begins in the year 298 AL ( After Landing ) and continues for many months , probably into the early months of 299 AL . Eddard Stark , Lord of Winterfell and 