A Gift From Earth is a science fiction novel by Larry Niven , first published in 1968 and set in his Known Space universe . Plateau , a colony in the Tau Ceti system , was settled by humans some 300 years before the plot begins . The colony world itself is a Venusian type planet with a dense , hot , poisonous atmosphere . It would be otherwise uninhabitable , except for a tall monolithic mesa that rises up to a breathable layer in the upper atmosphere . This gave the planet an habitable area about half the size of California . The Captain of the first colony vessel named the feature Mount Lookitthat ( from his interjection at first sight of it ) , and the colony became known as Plateau . On arrival , the crew of the first colony vessel used the weapons aboard ship to force the colonists ( awoken one at a time from suspended animation ) to sign the " Covenant of Planetfall " granting absolute rule to the crew and their families . By the time of the story , there is a firm class division between Crew and Colonists . The former 's rule over the latter is enforced by fear of ' Implementation ' , the secret police who take criminals and dissidents to the organ banks . There , they are cut up for fresh organs to keep the Crew and compliant Colonists young and healthy . An automated Bussard ramjet arrives from Earth , carrying an unknown cargo of great importance , which the government immediately finds and conceals , but not before the cargo has been observed by agents of the dissident group calling itself the " Sons of Earth " . Meanwhile , Matthew Keller , an ordinary miner , gets casually invited to a party and is drawn into a conversation about psi powers . Matt is in the middle of a tryst with a woman from the party , when Implementation agents raid the house , which turns out to be full of Sons of Earth members . In the course of escaping , Matt discovers that he has psionic powers which allow him to avoid notice . This allows him to sneak into the colony 's hospital and rescue some of the Sons of Earth , becoming involved in their conspiracy . The cargo of the ramship is revealed to be artificial replacements for human organs , which will render the organ banks obsolete and upset the balance of power on Plateau . Matt ends up fighting for survival to prevent both Implementation and rebels from starting bloodshed , so that a peaceful compromise can be reached . As the story began with a robot ramship in flight , it ends with another ramship headed from Earth to the human colony ' We Made It ' ( in the Procyon system ) with the same discovery . This ship is observed by alien Outsiders , who follow it in hopes of selling faster than light technology to the locals , which will lead to the advanced multi - species society portrayed in Neutron Star and Ringworld . Much of A Gift From Earth revolves around Niven 's idea that organ transplants would lead to a shortage of suitable donors , causing citizens to support widespread capital punishment for even trivial crimes , in order to ward off the effects of their own aging and death . This theme recurs in other Niven stories , particularly the Gil Hamilton stories . References in the 