For other uses , see LSJ ( disambiguation ) . A Greek - English Lexicon is the standard lexicographical work of the Ancient Greek language for English speakers , begun in the nineteenth century and now in its ninth ( revised ) edition . It was edited by Henry George Liddell , Robert Scott , Henry Stuart Jones , and Roderick McKenzie , and published by the Oxford University Press . It is now conventionally referred to as Liddell & Scott , Liddell - Scott - Jones , or LSJ , and sometimes humorously referred to as " the big Liddell " ( big little ) or " the great Scott " . A version of this lexicon can be searched online via The Perseus Project . According to Stuart Jones 's preface to the ninth ( 1925 ) edition , the creation of the Lexicon was originally proposed by David Alphonso Talboys , an Oxford publisher , and the Lexicon itself was based on the earlier Handwörterbuch der griechischen Sprache by the German lexicographer Franz Passow ( first published in 1819 , fourth edition 1831 ) . The second through sixth editions appeared in 1845 , 1849 , 1855 , 1861 , and 1869 . The first editor of the LSJ , Henry George Liddell , was Dean of Christ Church , Oxford , and the father of Alice Liddell , the eponymous Alice of the writings of Lewis Carroll . The eighth edition ( 1897 ) is the last edition published during Liddell 's lifetime . The LSJ is sometimes compared and contrasted with A Latin Dictionary by Lewis and Short , which was also published by Oxford University Press ( OUP ) . For comparisons between the two works , see the article on Lewis and Short 's dictionary . It is also sometimes compared with the Bauer lexicon , which is a similar work focussed on the Greek of the New Testament . The seventh edition ( 1882 ) of the LSJ was condensed into An Intermediate Greek - English Lexicon , containing the essential vocabulary of most Ancient Greek literature . This is the edition most commonly used in classroom settings ; it is humorously referred to as " the middle Liddell " . There is also the even shorter A Lexicon : Abridged from Liddell and Scott 's Greek - English Lexicon , which is sometimes called " the little Liddell " . This edition contains every entry in the Intermediate edition , with all of the textual citations removed and less full coverage of irregular forms . After the publication of the ninth edition in 1940 , shortly after the deaths of both Stuart Jones and McKenzie , the OUP maintained a list of addenda et corrigenda ( additions and corrections ) , which was bound with subsequent printings . However , in 1968 , these were replaced by a Supplement to the LSJ . Neither the addenda nor the Supplement has ever been merged into the main text , which still stands as originally composed by Liddell , Scott , Jones , and McKenzie . The Supplement was initially edited by M. L. West . Since 1981 , it has been edited by P. G. W. Glare , editor of the Oxford Latin Dictionary ( not to be confused with Lewis and Short ) . Since 1988 , it has been edited by Glare and Anne A. Thompson . As the title page of the Lexicon makes clear ( and the prefaces to the main text and to the Supplement attest ) 