A Grave Talent ( 1993 ) is the first book in Laurie R. King 's Kate Martinelli series . Concerning the search for the murderer of several young girls , it won the 1994 Edgar Award for Best First Novel . It is followed by To Play the Fool . The strangulation of four children in the vicinity of San Francisco leads the police force to appoint inspectors Al Hawkin and Kate ( " Casey " ) Martinelli to discover the criminal . Suspicion falls on renowned artist Vaun Adams , convicted of murdering a young girl years before . When someone attempts to murder Vaun herself , the police are forced to conclude that someone else must be behind the murders , and they discover that Vaun 's ex - boyfriend , maniacally egotistical Andy Lewis , must be the perpetrator . Hawkin convinces a reluctant Kate to set the trap for Lewis in her home by letting Vaun recover there . He arrives and declares that he will kill Kate and her lover Lee and leave Vaun to take the blame . Lee alerts the police to his presence , but the sniper who kills Lewis does not do so in time to prevent him from shooting and permanently disabling her . Kate Martinelli is a member of the San Francisco Police Department . She is extremely reserved . Lee Cooper is Kate 's lover . A psychiatrist , she is nearly Kate 's opposite in personality . At the end of the book , she is recovering from a bullet wound . Al Hawkin is Kate 's partner at work . He falls in love with one of the witnesses in their case . Vaun Adams is a highly talented artist targeted by her psychopathic ex - boyfriend from high school . Instead of using more modern techniques , she prefers a realistic method and is thus criticized . Kate and Lee take her in while she is recovering from Lewis 's first attempt to kill her . Andy Lewis murders several girls and disposes of the bodies near Vaun Adams 's house in order to frame her for the murders . When this does not work , he attempts to kill Vaun but fails . He tries again after she has temporarily moved into Kate and Lee 's home . Although a police sniper eventually kills him , he does shoot Lee . Kate and Lee 's dialogue at the beginning of the book references Dorothy L. Sayers 's detective Lord Peter Wimsey . A Grave Talent won the Edgar Award for Best First Novel in 1994 . 