A Happy Death ( original title La mort heureuse ) was the first novel by French writer - philosopher Albert Camus . The existentialist topic of the book is the " will to happiness , " the conscious creation of one 's happiness , and the need of time ( and money ) to do so . It draws on memories of the author including his job at the maritime commission in Algiers , his suffering from tuberculosis , and his travels in Europe . Camus composed and reworked the novel between 1936 and 1938 but then decided not to publish it . It is clearly the precursor to his most famous work , The Stranger , published in 1942 . The main character in La mort heureuse is named " Patrice Mersault " , similar to The Stranger 's main character " Meursault " . La mort heureuse was eventually published in 1971 , more than 10 years after Camus ' death . The English translation by Richard Howard appeared in 1972 . The novel has just over 100 pages and consists of two parts . Part 1 , titled " Natural death " , describes the monotone and empty life of Patrice Mersault with his boring office job and a meaningless relationship with his girlfriend . Mersault gets to know the rich invalid Roland Zagreus who shows Mersault a way out : " Only it takes time to be happy . A lot of time . Happiness , too , is a long patience . And in almost every case , we use up our lives making money , when we should be using our money to gain time. " . Mersault decides to kill Zagreus in order to create his happiness with the rich man 's money . Part 2 , titled " Conscious death " , follows Mersault 's subsequent trip to Europe . Traveling by train from city to city , he is not able to find peace and decides to return to Algiers , to live in a house high above the sea with three young female friends . Everybody here has only one goal : the pursuit of happiness . Yet Mersault needs solitude . He marries a pleasant woman he does not love , buys a house in a village by the sea , and moves in alone . Severely ill , he dies a happy death : " And stone among the stones , he returned in the joy of his heart to the truth of the motionless worlds. " . 