A Hero of Our Time ( Russian : Герой нашего времени ) is a short novel by Mikhail Lermontov , written in 1839 and revised in 1841 . It is an example of the superfluous man novel , noted for its compelling Byronic hero ( or anti - hero ) Pechorin and for the beautiful descriptions of the Caucasus . The book is divided into five short stories or novellas , plus ( in the second edition ) an authorial preface . There are three major narrators : an unnamed young army officer who has received Pechorin 's diaries after his death and who is implied to be Lermontov himself ; Maxim Maximytch , an old staff - captain who served with Pechorin for some time during the Caucasian War ; and Pechorin himself via his diaries . The stories depict Pechorin as impulsive , emotionally distant and manipulative , capable of extreme bravery but generally bored by his life . In the longest novella , Princess Mary , Pechorin flirts with the Princess of the title , while conducting an affair with his ex - lover Vera , and kills his friend Grushnitsky ( of whom he is secretly contemptuous ) in a duel in which the participants stand in turn on the edge of a cliff so that the loser 's death can be explained as an accidental fall . Eventually he rejects both women . The preface explains the author 's idea of his character : " A Hero of Our Time , my dear readers , is indeed a portrait , but not of one man . It is a portrait built up of all our generation 's vices in full bloom . Pechorin is the embodiment of the Byronic hero . Byron’s works were of international repute and Lermontov mentions his name several times throughout the novel . According to the Byronic tradition , Pechorin is a character of contradiction . He is both sensitive and cynical . He is possessed of extreme arrogance , yet has a deep insight into his own character and epitomizes the melancholy of the Romantic hero who broods on the futility of existence and the certainty of death . Pechorin’s whole philosophy concerning existence is oriented towards the nihilistic , creating in him somewhat of a distanced , alienated personality . Pechorin , similarly to Byron , treats women as an incentive for endless conquests and does not consider them worthy of any particular respect . He considers women such as Bela and Princess Mary to be little more than pawns in his games of romantic conquest , which in effect hold no meaning in his listless pursuit of pleasure . The only contradiction in Pechorin’s attitude to women is the memory of his genuine feelings for Vera , who loves him despite , and perhaps due to , all his faults . Having genuinely loved her once , and regarding the strong bond that still remains between them , Pechorin’s feelings for another can never reach the depth of his for Vera . At the end of “Princess Mary” one is presented with a moment of hope as Pechorin gallops after Vera . The reader almost assumes that a meaning to his existence may be attained and that Pechorin can finally realise that true feelings are possible . Yet a lifetime of superficiality and cynicism cannot be so easily eradicated and when fate intervenes and Pechorin’s horse collapses , he undertakes no further effort to reach his one hope of redemption : “I saw how futile and senseless 