A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius ( or AHWoSG ) is a memoir by Dave Eggers released in 2000 . It chronicles his stewardship of younger brother Christopher " Toph " Eggers following the cancer - related deaths of his parents . The book was an enormous commercial and critical success , reaching number one on The New York Times bestseller list and being nominated as a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for General Non - Fiction . Time Magazine and several newspapers dubbed it " The Best Book of the Year. " . Critics praised the book for its wild , vibrant prose , and it was described as " big , daring manic - depressive " by The New York Times . In Lake Forest , Illinois , Dave Eggers and his siblings , Bill , Beth and Toph ( who is 13 years younger than his next - eldest sibling , Dave ) endure the sudden death of their father due to lung cancer . Thirty - two days later , their mother dies from stomach cancer after a long struggle . Afterwards , Dave , Beth and Toph ( of whom Beth is now legal guardian ) move to California . Bill , who does not play a large role in the plot , eventually moves to L.A. though the rest of the family is in the Bay Area . Dave and Toph begin living on their own in a dilapidated , untamed fashion . Dave struggles between moments of feeling that his approach to parenting is calculated and brilliantly designed to make Toph well - adjusted , to worrying that his hands - off approach and commitment to personal projects will make Toph maladjusted . Dave 's own attempts to lead a normal life as a young adult often involve surreal encounters with women and alcohol . He is both guilty for leaving Toph and damaged by his parents ' death , and this fuels his pursuit of sex and irresponsibility . Dave and his friends organize an independent magazine called Might in San Francisco and become engrossed in the Generation X culture . Much of the magazine 's history is portrayed in the book . Dave also auditions for MTV 's The Real World in a development on the theme of exhibitionism . A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius is usually classified as a memoir or autobiography , and its foundation is certainly laid in true events . However , Eggers takes great creative liberties . He often writes wild , tangential fantasy scenes . He occasionally " compresses " time , making events in the book closer in time to one another than they actually were to enhance the flow of the story . He also sometimes has characters lapse into breaking the fourth wall by acknowledging their existence within the book at several points when talking to Eggers . In these cases , the characters often abandon their typical real - life personalities and characteristics , becoming tools with which Eggers can express and analyze his own thoughts and feelings in an " internal " dialogue , or vehicles for self - criticism . Eggers points out to his readers what parts of the book were fictionalized or exaggerated in the course of the book and the preface , and the shifts from actual conversations to mere dramatizations of Eggers 's thought processes are dramatic enough to be quickly recognizable when they occur , though other fictionalized aspects of the book are not always as easy to spot . Unusually ( but 