A House - Boat on the Styx is a book written by John Kendrick Bangs and published in 1895 . The premise of the book is that everyone who has ever died ( up until the time in which the book is set , which seems to be about the time of its publication ) has gone to Styx . This does not appear to be the conventional Hell described by Dante in The Inferno , but rather the Hades described in Greek myth ( both of which had Styxes ) : a universal collecting pot for dead souls , regardless of their deeds in life . The book begins with Charon , ferryman of the Styx ( in The Inferno , he was the ferryman of the river Acheron ) being startled—and annoyed—by the arrival of a house boat on the Styx . At first afraid that the boat will put him out of business , he later finds out that he is actually to be appointed the boat 's janitor . What follows are eleven more stories ( for a total of twelve ) which are set on the house boat . There is no central theme , and the purpose of the book appears to be as a literary thought experiment to see what would happen if various famous dead people were put in the same room with each other . Each chapter is a short story featuring various souls from history and mythology . In the twelfth chapter the house boat disappears , seguing into the sequel , Pursuit of the House - Boat . A House - Boat on the Styx appears to have no original fictional characters in it . All are borrowed—with varying degrees of accuracy—from either history or mythology . Bangs ' idea of setting people in Hell ( called Bangsian fantasy ) is quite similar to a book called God Bless You , Dr. Kevorkian by Kurt Vonnegut , although that work was set in Heaven ( not that it matters—Vonnegut explains that everyone winds up there regardless ) . Throughout the book , there is a running joke that Shakespeare did n't actually write any of his own plays , that they were actually ghostwritten by Sir Francis Bacon , Sir Walter Raleigh , and other contemporaries . Will always tries to change the subject quickly when authorship comes into conversation . Heroes in Hell , the first book in a series of fantasy short story collections by various authors , has a similar , albeit more modern , theme . Philip José Farmer 's Riverworld series is similar in that the main characters are , for the most part , historical figures who are resurrected on a planet with one great river winding around it . Bleiler , Everett ( 1948 ) . The Checklist of Fantastic Literature . Chicago : Shasta Publishers , 39 . 