A House Like a Lotus ( ISBN 0 - 374 - 33385 - 8 ) is a 1984 young adult novel by Madeline L'Engle . Its protagonist is sixteen - year - old Polly O'Keefe , whose friend and mentor , Maximiliana Horne , has sent her on a trip to Greece and Cyprus . As she travels , Polly must come to terms with a recent traumatic event involving Max . The history of Polly 's relationship with Max is told in flashback over the course of the novel . The use of double quotes distinguishes the present , whereas single quotes indicate flashbacks from the past . Polyhymnia " Polly " O'Keefe - nearly seventeen years old at the time of the novel , Polly describes herself as mature beyond her years in some ways , remarkably immature in others . She has red hair and blue eyes , is tall and thin , and recently cut her hair short . This is the first book in which she spells her nickname " Polly " instead of " Poly. " . She was named after the Greek muse of sacred music . Maximiliana Sebastiane Horne , better known as Max , is a successful artist ( a painter ) who recently returned to her Southern mansion , Beau Allaire . She has a tragic past , her mother and sister both having died young . Max blames her ruthless and lascivious father for both deaths . Max generally sees Polly as the daughter she could not have , her only child having died a few days after birth . Max was formerly married to Davin Tomassi , and after their divorce remained friends with him until his death . Prior to her illness , Max was well - traveled . Dr. Ursula Heschel , sometimes called Urs , is a gifted neurosurgeon , currently on sabbatical as she takes care of Max . She is a longtime friend and colleague of Polly 's Uncle Dennys , apparently since he was in college . Ursula has been Max 's lover and confidante for over thirty years . Sandy Murry is Polly 's favorite uncle . He is the twin brother of Dr. Dennys Murry , a neurosurgeon specializing in research ; elder brother to Charles Wallace Murry , who does not appear in the novel ( or in any of the O'Keefe books ) ; and a younger brother to Polly 's mother , Meg Murry O'Keefe . Sandy and his wife , Rhea , are " anti - corporate " lawyers , traveling the world to protect people from the rich and powerful . Sandy wears a beard , partly to distinguish himself from Dennys . Zachary Gray is a sometime college student , the only son of a rich , widowed businessman . Having recently been " dumped " by a girlfriend ( about two years after the end of his relationship with Vicky Austin in A Ring of Endless Light ) , Zach is in Europe , wandering around as he reassesses himself and his priorities . Zach is charming , arrogant , impulsive and reckless , but also remarkably astute in his impressions about Polly . Of the three major crossover characters between the O'Keefe family and Austin family series of books ( the others being Canon Tallis and Adam Eddington ) , Zach is the only one who first appeared in the Austin books . Dr. Queron Renier , nicknamed Renny , is a cousin of Simon Renier , the protagonist of Dragons in 