A Kiss of Shadows is the first novel in the Merry Gentry series by Laurell K. Hamilton . A faerie princess turned private investigator in a world where faeries are not only known to the general public , but are also fashionable , the title heroine is Princess Meredith NicEssus . As niece to Andais , The Queen of Air and Darkness , she is a royal of the Unseelie Court , however having fled the court three years before she has been hiding herself under the name of Merry Gentry and working as a private investigator for the Grey Detective Agency . The story begins in Los Angeles , California , in a world where magical creatures are " out of the closet " and , in some cases , even legal . Princess Meredith NicEssus is working for the Grey Detective Agency under the assumed name of Meredith ' Merry ' Gentry . When two women come to the agency with a story about fey - wannabes and rituals involving fey women , Merry goes undercover to investigate . However , she and her colleagues get more than they bargained for when it is discovered that the culprit is using Branwyn 's Tears , an oil that can make a human into a sidhe lover for a night , and turn even a sidhe or a sidhe - decendant into a sexual slave . In the process of solving the case , Merry 's secret is revealed , and she finds herself being hunted by the Sluagh . Brought to see their King , Sholto , he offers Meredith a deal . Himself disapproved of by Andais , Queen of Air and Darkness , because of his mixed blood , he proposes an alliance between the two of them . However , jealous at the idea of the princess becoming his lover , Merry is attacked by Sholto 's harem of nighthags . During the fight Merry 's Hand of Flesh is revealed when one of them , Segna the Grey , becomes nothing more than a ball of flesh . Shocked , Merry tries to flee , only to find herself trapped . It is at this point that Doyle , Captain of the Queen 's Ravens , appears . He announces that the Queen never sent the Sluagh out after Meredith , and that in fact the Queen meant her no harm . As prove of this he produces the Queen 's sword Mortal Dread , as well as the Queen 's mark , which he transfers to Merry in a kiss . Merry returns with Doyle to the Court . There she is reunited with both friends and enemies . The Queen reveals that she wishes for her bloodline to continue upon the throne . For that to happen , she is willing to take as her heir whoever of Meredith or her cousin , Cel , can first produce an heir . She lifts the geas of celibacy upon her Ravens for Meredith alone , insisting that she choose at least three or even more in order to increase the chance of her becoming pregnant . While this offer would permit Merry to end her self - imposed exile and return home , it also brings with it its own dangers . Cel , previously his mother 's sole heir , makes several attempts upon her life . It is in order to gain support that Merry makes alliances with others such as Kurag , the Goblin King . Finally , it is revealed 