A Knight of the Word is the second novel in the Word / Void trilogy by Terry Brooks , written as a prequel to his Shannara series . It was first published in 1998 by Ballantine 's Del Rey division ( ISBN 0 - 345 - 37963 - 2 ) . The setting is primarily Seattle , Washington around Halloween in 2002 , five years after the events of Running with the Demon . The story follows John Ross as he attempts to leave his life in service to the Word , while Nest Freemark tries to restore his faith . It is followed by the novel Angel Fire East . John Ross , having failed on a mission from the Word in which fourteen school children were killed in San Sobel , California , tries to leave his life as a Knight of the Word behind him . He had returned to Fairy Glen in Wales in order to tender his resignation to the Lady , but she would not appear to him . Instead , he met the ghost of his ancestor , Owain Glyndwr , who informs him that the decision to give up being a Knight is not his to make . Frustrated , John returned to America , met his beautiful girlfriend Stefanie , and now works for a homeless center in Seattle . He ignores his now - infrequent dreams , including one in which he has killed his boss , Simon Lawrence . Simon Lawrence is known locally as " the Wizard of Oz " , because of his successful charity ventures in Seattle ( AKA the Emerald City ) . He is being investigated for financial impropriety by a demon - influenced reporter named Andrew Wren . This demon is a changeling . During the day it works to subvert , and morphs into a giant hyena - like creature to feed on the homeless underneath Seattle at night . Nest Freemark , now a 19 - year - old college student has returned to Hopewell , Illinois for the weekend before Halloween . She reflects on the events over the last five years , including her grandfather 's death in the spring , Wraith 's disappearance when she turned 18 , and the fact that she no longer has contact with most of her childhood friends , as well as John Ross . She has not used her magic in years and is unsure if she has it any longer . She travels with her twiggy sylvan companion , Pick , through the park and has an encounter with a tatterdemalion ( a ghost - like messenger of the Word formed from the memories of dead children ) named Ariel . Nest learns that John Ross is in need of her help and reluctantly agrees to fly to Seattle to talk to him . She is disturbed to learn that John is now especially vulnerable to falling to the side of the Void , and the Word has dispatched someone who will kill him if this happens . This resounds with Nest , as she recalls that John would have killed her five years ago if she had turned to the Void herself . Arriving in Seattle , Nest takes a walk at night with Ariel accompanying her , and can hear the demon hunting underground but Ariel does n't let her go after it . She meets with John the next day and is unable to convince him to return to his duties as a Knight , but does cause 