A Lesson Before Dying is Ernest J. Gaines ' eighth novel , published in 1993 . It was selected for Oprah 's Book Club in 1997 . Gaines was born in 1933 , during the start of the Great Depression . His father was a sharecropper on the River Lake Plantation in Oscar , Louisiana which meant that Gaines was expected to work in the fields growing up . He attended school for the first six years in the plantation church were he went to classes for five to six months out of the year depending on the harvest schedule . After this , Gaines then spent three more years at the St. Augustine School , which was for African Americans only . At the age of fifteen he moved to Vallejo , California to join his mother and step - father that had left Louisiana during World War II . In A Lesson Before Dying , there are many similarities between Ernest Gaines’ life and his novel . This book is set at Henry Pichot’s plantation . Gaines grew up in Cleveland , Ohio where his grandmother was the most famous prostitute in town . His father and many critics believe that this is the reason for many of his books’ settings . One of the main settings in this book is the church where Grant is the teacher ; this is similar to Gaines’ life as he grew up attending a segregated school in the local church . As the novel progresses Grant travels into town for various meetings , this can be compared to the time in his life when Gaines moved to California after World War II . A Lesson Before Dying is set in the fictional city of Bayonne , Louisiana in the late 1940s . It tells the story of two African American men struggling to attain their manhood in a deeply prejudiced society . Jefferson , a young man with little formal education , is an innocent bystander at a deadly shootout between a white store owner and two black robbers . He is later convicted of murder and sentenced to death . During the trial , Jefferson’s defense lawyer calls him a “hog , ” claiming he is less than human and therefore should not be killed . Jefferson’s distraught godmother Miss Emma asks Grant Wiggins , the local school teacher , to “make Jefferson a man” before he dies . Over the course of the novel , Grant must find the courage within himself to face many diverse situations : a hateful white society ; an indigent black community with high expectations ; a pained young man slated for execution ; and his own reluctant feelings to shoulder the many burdens of the black community . Grant faces many different types of opposition during the novel . Though Miss Emma , Jefferson’s Godmother , has worked for Henry Pichot , the plantation owner , for years , he is reluctant to help Grant make Jefferson a man . At one point , Miss Emma gets down on her knees and begs for help from Mr. Pichot . Grant is often asked to visit Mr. Pichot’s house to meet with him , and then is forced to wait in the kitchen for hours until Mr. Pichot is ready to see him . During his many trips to the jail to visit Jefferson , Grant is scrutinized and ridiculed by the white sheriff . The plantation school is horribly under - funded , yet when the white superintendent of schools , Dr. Joseph 