A Little Tour in France is a book of travel writing by Henry James . Originally published under the title En Province in 1883 - 1884 as a serial in The Atlantic Monthly , the book recounts a six - week tour James made of many provincial towns in France , including Tours , Bourges , Nantes , Toulouse , Arles and several others . The first book publication was in 1884 . A second , extensively revised edition was published in 1900 . James gives the idea for the book in the first paragraph of the first installment of the original magazine serial : " France may be Paris , but Paris is not France. " . He conceived the book as a description of and even homage to the provinces . James had tried living in Paris before settling in London in 1876 . He returned to France in 1882 to discover more of French provincial life than he had previously been able to see . James began his tour in Touraine , then journeyed southwest through Provence , and then north along the flooding Rhône River to Burgundy . The resulting book was a pleasant mix of art and architecture criticism , references to classic literature as well as guide - books and pamphlets , sharp observation of people and places , and knowledgable discussion of French history and culture - all communicated in an easygoing , urbane , witty style . James could never resist the piquant detail , like the chatty nun who guided him through Marmoutier abbey or the tough soldiers quartered in the dismal old papal residence at Avignon . He was particularly interested in ancient cathedrals and castles , the less restored the better , though he hardly neglects present - day realities of shabby inns , talkative diners , uncomfortable train rides , and dreary museums . There 's little attempt at generalization or abstract theorizing . James is usually content to describe what he saw as accurately as possible . He wrote in a letter of November 12 , 1882 to Isabella Gardner : " I have seen more of France than I had ever seen before , and on the whole liked it better. " . A Little Tour in France may be the least commented - on of all James ' travel books . It lacks The American Scene 's brooding intensity and occasional outrage or Italian Hours ' sheer voluptuous pleasure in sights and sounds . Instead , the book seems composed in a minor key of relaxed contemplation , which gradually charms readers instead of immediately overwhelming them . Although the book is hardly one of James ' major achievements , its careful depiction of the odd , sleepy , commonplace life of provincial France in the 19th century is a valuable historical record . It 's not " big " history in the sense of battles and revolutions . Rather it 's a deftly written journal of the small , familiar features of everyday existence . 