A Little Princess is a 1905 children 's novel by Frances Hodgson Burnett . It is a revised and expanded version of Burnett 's 1888 serialized novella entitled Sara Crewe : or , What happened at Miss Minchin 's boarding school , which was published in St. Nicholas Magazine . Seven year old Sara Crewe , who was raised in India by her affluent father , Captain Ralph Crewe , has been sent to London , England to be educated at Miss Minchin 's Seminary for Young Ladies . Impressed by the father 's fortune , and wishing to keep Sara at the school as long as possible , Miss Minchin allows Sara to have far more luxuries than the average student . She has her own personal maid , a pony , a private sitting room and an extravagant wardrobe . She is also permitted to do anything she pleases , and is constantly praised , complimented and shown off as the school 's star pupil . When Captain Crewe becomes part owner of diamond mines - - investing his life 's fortune with a " dear friend " - - Sara 's status grows even more . In spite of this adulation , Sara takes her situation in stride . She is bright , compassionate , and is generally well - liked by her classmates . A gifted storyteller , she can draw the attention of every student in the Seminary , even those that are not fond of her , such as Lavinia . Sara pretends she is a princess and strives to emulate the qualities of one : generosity , compassion and politeness . Her best friend , Ermengarde , is the " school dunce " ; Sara helps her learn her lessons by weaving them into stories . Sara is also the " adopted mother " of a younger student , Lottie . Sara and Lottie share a bond since neither one has a mother . She also befriends Becky , the school scullery maid , and smuggles food to her . On Sara 's eleventh birthday , one of Captain Crewe 's solicitors arrives with bad news : Captain Crewe has died of brain fever . Furthermore , his " dear friend " and business partner has run off with the Crewe 's entire fortune , leaving Sara penniless . Miss Minchin , enraged , threatens to turn Sara out into the street but is convinced to keep her as a servant . She immediately takes all of Sara 's belongings and sends her to the attic to sleep in a squalid room next to Becky 's . From that point on , Sara becomes an all - purpose servant at the school , doing everything from teaching French lessons to cleaning and running errands . She is deprived of food and adequate clothing . Many of the other servants take delight in ordering Sara about . As Sara 's situation worsens , she begins to despair . She keeps herself going by imagining that she and Becky are prisoners in the Bastille . Her friends Ermengarde and Lottie also lift her spirits by sneaking to her attic to visit her whenever they can . One day , a seriously ill and depressed man moves into the townhouse next to the Seminary . Sara calls him the " Indian Gentleman " when she sees several objects from India being carried into his home . She meets the Indian Gentleman 's lascar , Ram Dass , when she spots him through a skylight and speaks 