A Long Fatal Love Chase is a suspense novel by Louisa May Alcott , who wrote the manuscript in 1866 , two years before finally establishing her literary reputation with the publication of Little Women ( 1868 ) . The manuscript remained unpublished until 1995 . Alcott originally titled the novel A Modern Mephistopheles , or The Fatal Love Chase ( Later , she reused the first part of this title for her 1877 novel A Modern Mephistopheles ) . She submitted this draft to the magazine Flag of Our Union , where it was intended to run as a serial in twelve monthly instalments . When the magazine 's publisher , James R. Elliot , deemed the novel too sensational and rejected it , she changed the title to Fair Rosamond and undertook extensive revisions to tone down the more controversial elements of the story . Despite these changes , the book was rejected a second time , and Alcott laid the manuscript aside . Fair Rosamond ended up in Harvard 's Houghton Library , where it remains to this day ; the earlier draft was auctioned off by Alcott 's heirs and eventually fell into the hands of a Manhattan rare book dealer . In 1994 , Kent Bicknell , headmaster of the Sant Bani School in Sanbornton , New Hampshire , paid " more than his annual salary but less than $50,000 " for the unexpurgated version of the manuscript . After restoring it , he sold the publication rights to Random House for 1.5 million dollars . Bicknell donated 25 % of the profits to Orchard House ( the museum of the Alcott Family ) , 25 % to the Alcott heirs , and 25 % to the Sant Bani School . In 1995 , Random House released the novel in a handsome hardbound edition under the title A Long Fatal Love Chase . It became a best - seller , and an audiobook version soon followed . The novel is still in print ( February 2007 ) as a trade paperback from Dell Books . Love Chase is startlingly different from its more famous successor . The ostentatiously Faustian plot centers on Rosamond Vivian , a lovely but discontented maiden who lives on an English island with only her bitter old grandfather for company and who begins the novel by rashly declaring : I often feel as if I'd gladly sell my soul to Satan for a year of freedom . Right on cue , a man named Phillip Tempest - a man who bears a more than trivial resemblance to Mephistopheles - walks in the door . Within a month , Rosamond is in love , and although she realises that this man is " no saint " , she marries him , believing with the fatuousness of youth that her love will save him . She sails away from her lonely island in Tempest 's yacht , the Circe , and begins her married life in a series of luxurious villas . Much to his own surprise , Tempest , a heartless libertine , finds that he , too , has fallen in love . He tries to make Rosamond happy , and , at first , succeeds ; however , after a year in his company , she begins to realise how conscienceless and cruel he is . She then discovers that Tempest has a wife and son already , making their marriage a sham and Rosamond the unwitting mistress of a man who has grossly deceived her . That same night 