A Long Way Down is a novel written by British author Nick Hornby , published in 2005 . It is a dark comedy , playing off the themes of suicide , angst , depression and promiscuity . The story is written in the first - person narrative from the points of view of the four main characters , Martin , Maureen , Jess and JJ . These four strangers happen to meet on the roof of a high building called Topper 's House in London on New Year 's Eve , each with the intent of committing suicide . Their plans for death in solitude , however , are ruined when they meet . The novel recounts their misadventures as they decide to come down from the roof alive - however temporarily that may be . Martin Sharp - The former host of a top rated morning show , Martin made the mistake of sleeping with a girl who was 15 years and 250 days old , a 115 day gap of legality which would ruin his career and his marriage . Maureen - A pious , sheltered middle - aged Catholic woman who is left to care for her vegetative son Matty . This has lead to her living the past 19 years of her life in relative seclusion , going only to Church and spending the majority of her time making up stories to tell Matty . Jess - A tactless , unpredictable , drug - abusing teenager who carries around the emotional baggage of family issues and an unhealthy obsession for tracking down her ex - boyfriend Chas . JJ - An American whose sole purpose for being in London is a relationship with his girlfriend Lizzie who was British . He was in a band , Big Yellow , who until recently had been performing across the UK. JJ lost the band and the girl and has now found himself delivering pizzas via moped . As with several of Hornby 's earlier books , it seems likely that A Long Way Down will be adapted for the screen . Johnny Depp bought the rights to the book before it was even published and has since hired writer D.V. DeVincentis , who previously wrote the script for the film High Fidelity , to write the screenplay . Depp is also quoted on the back of the paperback edition as saying that the book is " Masterful … some of the finest writing , and some of the most outstanding characters I've ever had the pleasure of reading. " . It 's a thrill to watch a writer as talented as Hornby take on the grimmest of subjects without flinching , and somehow make it funny and surprising at the same time. " . 