Willa Cather 's A Lost Lady was first published in 1923 . It tells the story of Marian Forrester and her husband , Captain Daniel Forrester who live in the Western town of Sweet Water , along the Transcontinental Railroad . The novel is written in the third person , but is mostly written from the perspective of Niel Herbert , a young man who grows up in Sweet Water and witnesses the decline of Mrs. Forrester , for whom he feels very deeply , and also of the West itself from the idealized age of noble pioneers to the age of capitalist exploitation . Mrs. Marian Forrester : The wife of Captain Forrester , she is a small town aristocrat . Niel falls in love with what she represents , and is dismayed to discover that she has a lover , Frank Ellinger . After her husband 's death she allows Ivy Peters to run her estate . She eventually leaves the town and marries an Englishman , dying before Niel ever sees her again . Captain Daniel Forrester : A strong man who made his fortune building track for the railroads in the old pioneering days . He is proud of his beautiful wife . The novel opens at a time when he has already been physically destroyed by a fall from a horse . After suffering two strokes he eventually dies , signifying the end of the pioneering era . Niel Herbert : The main character , Niel is a young boy when he meets Mrs. Forrester . He falls in love with what she represents and struggles to preserve his boyhood image of her . After watching her first have an affair with Frank Ellinger and later Ivy Peters , he finally gives up on her . Niel realizes by the end of the novel that his perception of Mrs. Forrester is based on the Captain 's influence over her . Judge Pommeroy : Niel 's uncle , he is a lawyer that falls on hard times much the way the Forresters do . Ivy Peters : An elder boy who knocks down a woodpecker and slits her eyes before releasing her . He is cocky and pretentious and becomes a lawyer . Later in the novel he becomes very wealthy and eventually he succeeds in owning the Forrester estate . Frank Ellinger : A large man , he is a bachelor at the beginning . Frank is Mrs. Forrester 's lover and visits her when the Captain is away from the house . He later marries Constance Ogden . Constance Ogden : A girl Niel 's age whom he tries to entertain at the Forresters , she later marries Frank Ellinger . Black Tom : Judge Pommeroy 's black servant , he often works for the Forresters as well . Adolph Blum : One of Niel 's friends , he accidentally comes across Mrs. Forrester and Frank Ellinger in the cedar grove . Cyrus Dalzell : The president of the Colorado and Utah and a good friend of the Forrester family . Mrs. Beasley : The town phone operator , she listens in on all long distance calls . The novel is regarded as having a robust symbolic framework . The novel is also regarded as having been an influence on F. Scott Fitzgerald , as Marian Forrester was an inspiration for his Daisy Buchanan character in The Great Gatsby . The novel was adapted very loosely into a film in 1934 by Gene Markey , and starred Barbara Stanwyck as Marian Forrester . The 