A Map of the World ( 1994 ) is a novel by Jane Hamilton . It was the Oprah 's Book Club selection for December 1999 . It was made into a movie released in 1999 starring Sigourney Weaver , Julianne Moore , David Strathairn , Chloë Sevigny , Louise Fletcher and Marc Donato with a soundtrack by Pat Metheny . The book is concerned with how one seemingly inconsequential moment can alter lives forever . Alice Goodwin , mother of two , school nurse and wife of an aspiring dairy farmer in Wisconsin , is getting ready to take her two daughters and her best friend , Theresa 's two little girls to their farm pond to swim . When she goes upstairs to find her bathing suit , Lizzy , Theresa 's 2 - year - old , slips away to the pond and drowns . It all goes downhill from there . The town tramp , whom Alice reprimanded for constantly bringing her sick son to school , accuses Alice of molesting her child . The entire town turns on the Goodwin family , fairly new to the area , and several other mothers come forward with tales of Alice 's " abuse " . Imprisonment , trial and loss of the farm ensue and Alice 's husband and Theresa become " involved. " . The novel is essentially about a search for authenticity in the contemporary American midwest . A couple struggles to maintain their lives on a farm , keep to ethical practices of both farming and living , and to raise their two young children , but American society stymies their efforts . The novel is an indictment of the U.S. legal system , which works with the subtlety and mercy of a sledgehammer ; the farming system , which values dollars over good food and the environment ; and the American idea of marriage , which is falling apart from its own internal contradictions . However , the novel manages to be very funny throughout . Its humor comes out not just in the wicked , scathing sentences of its first third , told in a voice that one imagines is close to the author 's own , but also in the structural choice of placing section two in the voice of the hilariously but tragically non - verbal husband . The contrast between husband 's and wife 's thinking is far more eloquent and entertaining than the recent popular psychological studies on the subject of male - female mental processes . Also included : the annoyingly efficient but oblivious mother - in - law , class and race differences but from a female perspective , and the politics of a small town . 