A Maze of Death 1971 Paperback Library edition . A Maze of Death is a 1970 science fiction novel by Philip K. Dick . Like many of Dick 's novels , it portrays a drab and harsh other - planet , human colony and explores the difference between reality and perception . It is , however , one of his few to explore the human death instinct and capacity for murder and is one of his darkest novels . The plot revolves around fourteen colonists to the world Delmak - O . They all seem mentally ill and hostile towards one another in some way . After they fail to receive an expected message from an off - world authority revealing the purpose of the colony , they begin to lose control of their sanities . When one of them is murdered , the group falls into state of intense paranoia . Delmak - O is mysterious and largely unexplored . It seems to be inhabited by both real and artificial beings and large , gelatinous cubes that duplicate items presented to them and give out advice . As various calamities befall each character , the group continues to go to one of the cubes for advice , triggering a total breakdown of the world . One of the aspects of the novel is the completely made - up theology shared by all the characters . The chief text of their religion is a book called " How I Rose From the Dead in My Spare Time and So Can You " by Egon Spectowsky . The theology includes , among other things , the assertion that prayer is seldom useful unless it is electronically transmitted throughout the universe , the existence of the walker - on - earth , a divine manifestation that appears to intervene in the lives of chosen people , the form - destroyer , which embodies the forces of death and entropy , and the intercessor , which controls peoples destiny . This theology is an integral part of the novel . The reader is kept in the dark about the true nature of the colony and ' reality ' of Delmak - 0 . In this 1970 novel Dick delves into the concept of virtual reality . It turns out that Delmak - 0 is a construct of the colonist 's imagination and that they are all passengers stranded aboard a starship locked in a doomed orbit . Their use of virtual reality to stave off boredom and insanity turns - out to be a deadly escape . 