A Midsummer Tempest is an 1974 alternate history fantasy novel by Poul Anderson . In 1975 , it was nominated for the World Fantasy Award for Best Novel and Nebula Award for Best Novel and won the Mythopoeic Award . The setting is in a parallel world where William Shakespeare was not a dramatist but the Great Historian ; the events in Shakespeare 's plays were , in fact , historical in this world . The plays having depicting anachronistic technology , Anderson extrapolated that the world was , in general , more technologically advanced . The novel takes place after Shakespeare 's death , in the era of Cromwell and Charles I , but as well as the English Civil War , the characters are also dealing with the Industrial Revolution . Although various plays are alluded to , the plot is chiefly shaped by A Midsummer Night 's Dream and The Tempest . Prince Rupert is taken by the Roundheads ; held captive at a country house , he falls in love with his captor 's niece , Jennifer . One of his troopers , Will Fairweather , followed him to the house where he was held captive ; with the help of Jennifer , Will brings him to Oberon and Titania , who offer magical aid . Rupert and Jennifer exchange magic rings that will aid them as long as they are true to each other . Rupert sets out with Will to find the books that Prospero sank , in order to aid King Charles . Valeria explains what happens in the English Civil War , including the king 's execution , strengthening Rupert 's determination . He finds a Spanish ship that will transport him ; it is carrying an ambassador and his wife . Jennifer 's uncle discovers her on her return and resolves to use the ring to find Rupert . She is brought , captive , to a port , where the ring enables her to steal a boat and set sail . The ambassador 's wife uses a magical potion to seduce Rupert , and the rings fail . Rupert can not find his way to the island , and Jennifer is stranded at sea . Despairing , Rupert takes to the library at Milan to try to work out where to find the island and so the books . Jennifer 's plight becomes desperate from thirst , but Ariel finds her and brings her to the island . Rupert works out the location , and meets Jennifer ; they are reconciled . They retrieve the books and magically bear them back to England . Charles I has taken up a position near Glastonbury Tor for reasons he does not himself understand . Rupert attempts the magic ; Will Fairweather is possessed by a spirit of England and stirs up the magic of the land . The Roundheads are defeated , and Charles I wins the English Civil War as a result . Rupert and Jennifer return the rings to Oberon and Titania , and retire to a peaceful married life . The Old Phoenix appears in several of Poul Anderson 's short stories as a nexus between worlds . 