A Mouthful of Air : Language and Languages , Especially English ( ISBN 0 - 688 - 11935 - 2 ) is a work on the subject of linguistics by Anthony Burgess . It was first published in August 1993 . Among the topics covered are : the mechanics of linguistic sounds ; the development of the English language and its connections with other languages ; the making of dictionaries ; the importance of slang ; the International Phonetic Alphabet ; the role of dialect ; the best way of learning a foreign language ; and a look at specific languages , including Japanese and Malay . An Egyptian priest….plays up the mystery of language to enhance his own power . Languages never stand still . Modern spelling crystallises lost pronunciations : the visual never quite catches up with the aural . The British…used to regard foreigners as either a comic turn or a sexual menace . To learn a European language…was , at best , to seek to acquire a sort of girls’ - finishing - school ornament , at worst , to capitulate feebly to the enemy . It is generally felt that the educated man or woman should be able to read Dante , Goethe , Baudelaire , Lorca in the original - with , anyway , the crutch of a translation . Any kind of discourse which has a flavour of the British ruling class , so powerful is ancestral memory , must be strenuously avoided . The consciousness in of the elevation of a substandard dialect into a national tongue has been responsible for a mixture of attitudes to citizens of the mother country - inferiority , defiance , contempt . A blending of the first two may be responsible for the upward intonation pattern of answers , more appropriate to questions….slang is of its nature defiant . It is also demotic….But the ruling class of Australia is itself demotic . It is demotic poetry emerging in flashes of ironic insight . If Shakespeare required a word and had not met it in civilised discourse , he unhesitatingly made it up . Journalism may not dare too much . It can be gently humorous and ironic , very lightly touched by idiosyncrasy , but it must not repel readers by digging too deeply . This is especially true of its approach to language : the conventions are not questioned . The questioning of linguistic conventions is one of the main duties of what we call literature . All art preserves mysteries which aesthetic philosophers tackle in vain . 