A Night in Terror Tower is the twenty seventh book in R. L. Stine 's popular Goosebumps series of scary stories for young people . This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia 's quality standards . Please ] improve this article ] if you can . When they leave the cell , however , they discover that their tour group is gone . Sue 's search for her brother leads her through a peasant village , where she is eventually found by the Lord High Executioner and taken back to the tower . There , they encounter Morgrid , the King 's sorcerer , who reveals the Lord High Executioner used three magical white stones to bring them back , after Morgrid sent them far into the future with new , but incomplete memories and identities . At the last moment before their execution , Eddie reveals he swiped the stones from the Lord High Executioner , and the siblings manage to escape into the future , bringing Morgrid with them . What happened to them afterwards remains a mystery . Lists of miscellaneous information should be avoided . Please relocate any relevant information into appropriate sections or articles . The premise of two heirs to the British throne mysteriously vanishing , is actually based on true events . In 1483 , Richard III placed his two nephews , Edward V and Richard of Shrewsbury , 1st Duke of York , in the Tower of London . The two boys were never seen again . It is not known what happened to the two young princes but they were most likely killed . A film version of this book was also made . The medieval - style Casa Loma in Toronto , Ontario served as the setting for much of this film . There were two alternate endings ; one for the book , and the other for the film based on it . The book ends with Eddie , Sue , and Morgrid going out for some " 20th century burgers and fries " , while the film ends with much more suspense and dark implications . In the film , the Lord High Executioner manages to grab one of the three white stones , though it is never explained if one would be enough to make any difference . This Goosebumps related article is a stub . 