A Night in the Lonesome October is a novel by Roger Zelazny published in 1993 , near the end of his life . The book is divided in 32 chapters , each representing one " night " in the month of October ( plus one " introduction " chapter ) . Moreover , the story is told in the first - person , akin to journal entries . Throughout , 33 full - page illustrations by Gahan Wilson ( one per chapter , plus one on the inside back cover ) punctuate a tale heavily influenced by H. P. Lovecraft . A Night in the Lonesome October was nominated for the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 1994 . A Night in the Lonesome October is narrated from the present - tense point - of - view of Snuff , the dog who is Jack the Ripper 's companion . The bulk of the story takes place in London and its environs , though at one point the story detours through the dream - world described by Lovecraft in The Dream - Quest of Unknown Kadath . Though never explicitly stated , various contextual clues within the story ( the most obvious of which being the appearance of Sherlock Holmes ( or " The Great Detective " ) ) imply that it takes place during the late Victorian period ( more specifically , the last 15 years of the 19th century , possibly even 1888 itself ) . It is revealed as the story progresses that once every few decades , when the moon is full on the night of Halloween , the fabric of reality thins , and doors may be opened between this world and the realm of the Great Old Ones . When these conditions are right , men and women with occult knowledge may gather at a specific ritual site , to either hold the doors closed , or to help fling them open . Should the Closers win , then the world will remain as it is until the next turning . . . but should the Openers succeed , then the Great Old Ones will come to Earth , to remake the world in their own image ( enslaving or slaughtering the human race in the process ) . The Openers have never yet won . These meetings are often referred to as " The Game " or " The Great Game " by the participants , who try to keep the goings - on secret from the mundane population . The various " Players " during the Game depicted in the book are archetypal characters from Victorian Era gothic fiction - Jack the Ripper ( only ever referred to as " Jack " ) , Dracula ( " The Count " ) , Victor Frankenstein ( " The Good Doctor " ) , and the Wolf Man ( amusingly known as " Larry Talbot " ) all make appearances . In addition , there is a Witch ( " Crazy Jill " ) , a Druid ( " Owen " ) , a " Mad Monk " ( " Rastov " - clearly modeled after Rasputin ) , and Hermetic occultists ( " Morris and McCab " - often mentioned as a reference to real - life Hermetic of the time MacGregor Mathers ) . The most unusual aspect of the story is that each Player has a " Familiar " - an animal companion with near - human intelligence which helps complete the numerous preparations required to be ready for the ritual 