A Northern Light ( 2003 ) is a historical novel by Jennifer Donnelly . It is based around the Big Moose Lake murder case of 1906 . It could be considered a young adult version of Theodore Dreiser 's An American Tragedy , although Donnelly 's book is concerned less with the murder itself and more with the life of a young girl who gets caught up in it . The novel was published in the UK under the title A Gathering Light . Set in the Adirondack Mountains of Upstate New York , the book is focused on the life of a 16 - year - old girl named Mattie Gokey . She is the oldest daughter of a widowed farmer , and with that title comes enormous responsibilities on the farm . The problem , though , is that she does not want to be a farm girl all her life . She is a very talented writer , and her teacher 's involvement has led to her being accepted on scholarship to Barnard College in New York City . In the midst of this decision , Mattie gets a summer job at a lodge on Big Moose Lake . It is there were she meets Grace Brown , who hands her a bundle of letters on the pretense that Mattie is to burn them . Later , before Mattie can carry out the task , Grace turns up dead in the lake . Mattie , unable to quell her curiosity , begins reading the letters . As she pieces together Grace 's life and realizes why she ended up dead , Mattie is also able to come to terms with her own place in life and what she needs to do . While the murder case in the book is a true one , some liberties were taken by Donnelly . Most notably , Grace hands Mattie both letters that Chester Gillette had written to her and letters that she had written to Chester . In reality , Grace was only in possession of the letters Chester wrote to her ; the letters from Grace to Chester were discovered later . The novel won the 2003 Los Angeles Times Book Prize for Young Adult Literature and the UK 's Carnegie Medal . It was named one of the Young Adult Library Services Association 's top ten books for young adults in 2004 , and also was a Michael L. Printz Award honor book that year . In 2007 it was selected by judges of the CILIP Carnegie Medal for children 's literature as one of the ten most important children 's novels of the past 70 years . You can help by expanding it . 