A Passionate Pilgrim is a novella by Henry James , first published in The Atlantic Monthly in 1871 . The story was the earliest fiction that James included in the New York Edition ( 1907 - 09 ) of his works . Set in England , the tale shows James ' strong interest in the contrast between the Old World and the New . In fact , the difference between America and Europe erupts into open conflict in the story , which leads to a sadly ironic ending . The narrator meets fellow American Clement Searle at an old - fashioned London inn . Searle has long wanted to settle in England to escape what he considers his arid life in America . But he is physically ailing , and he 's also depressed because his lawyer ca n't uphold his claim to a share in a country estate currently owned by Richard Searle , a distant relation . Clement and the narrator visit the estate , where they meet the ethereal Miss Searle , who supports Clement 's cause . They also meet Miss Searle 's brother Richard , who is at first suspicious and then outright hostile and combative toward Clement . Upset by the conflict Clement and the narrator travel to Oxford , where they help a gentleman down on his luck to travel to America . Clement is now very sick and sends for Miss Searle . She responds to his call and tells him that her brother has been thrown from a horse and killed . Clement might now have a real chance for a share of the estate , but the opportunity comes too late for him . He dies and is buried in the England which proved so inhospitable to him . Clement Searle is an early example of James ' imaginative and sensitive protagonists who are often defeated by less fastidious adversaries . The perhaps overly blunt irony of the story is that Clement might have realized his dream of living on an English estate if his physical frailty had n't betrayed him . The story shows James still in his apprentice stage . Although written in an assured and fluent manner , there are many passages of local color description that intrude rather obviously into the narrative . These passages do give substance to Clement 's dream of settling and living in the England he has long idealized . Of course , Clement 's creator would realize that dream by living and prospering in England for most of his adulthood . The story also plays on another common theme in James : the simultaneous allure and danger of experience . The closer that Clement gets to his goal of a home in the English countryside , the sicker he becomes . James 's fiction would often show imaginative characters getting near the dense , " passionate " experience they desire , only to find that such experience can be destructive as well . In his New York Edition preface James admitted the story 's technical shortcomings . But the tale meant much to him as an early example of his international theme , the vivid contrast between Europe and America . Critics have generally agreed that the story makes the theme immediate and appealing , though there has been disagreement as to whether the tale is really all that much better than other early fiction James excluded from the New York Edition . Some critics have expressed impatience with Clement Searle as an impractical dreamer and a weak example of James 