A Passage to India ( 1924 ) is a novel by E. M. Forster set against the backdrop of the British Raj and the Indian independence movement in the 1920s . It was selected as one of the 100 great works of English literature by the Modern Library . In this story , a British woman , Adela Quested , joins her fiancé in India where he works for the government . She is befriended by an Indian doctor , Aziz H. Ahmed , who is later accused of attempting to rape her . The accusation takes place after Adela 's unidentified traumatic experience while touring a local natural attraction , the Marabar Caves . The ensuing court trial increases the racial tension between the Indians and the British , threatening to tear apart the colonial society of the fictional city of Chandrapore , India and foreshadowing the end of the British Raj . Depending on the particular narrative voice being used , characters are referred to by either their formal surname or their familiar name . English City Magistrate of Chandrapore . English principal of the Chandrapore high school , middle aged and unmarried . The novel won the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for fiction in 1924 . 1984 : A Passage to India is a feature film directed by David Lean , starring Victor Banerjee , Judy Davis , Art Malik , Saeed Jaffrey , Roshan Seth , Peggy Ashcroft , Alec Guinness and Nigel Havers . 1965 : A Passage to India was produced for television in the United Kingdom by the BBC in 1965 , as part of their regular Play of the Month strand . The 110 - minute adaptation was shown on BBC1 on November 16 . The script was an adaptation by John Maynard of the 1960 stage version of the novel by Santha Rama Rau , and the play was directed by Indian director Waris Hussein . Sybil Thorndike starred as Mrs Moore , with Cyril Cusack as Fielding , Virginia McKenna as Adela , Zia Mohyeddin as Aziz and Ronald Hines as Ronnie Heaslop . The play also sees early appearances of Saeed Jaffrey and Doreen Mantle in minor roles . Unlike many BBC productions of the 1960s which have been junked , A Passage to India still exists in the BBC archives , and was repeated on BBC2 in 1992 as part of the Black and White in Colour season of programmes — in spite of the fact that it is in black and white . Forster , E.M. Overview and selection from " A Passage to India. " . The Norton Anthology of English Literature : The Twentieth Century ( Vol . 2C ) , 7th Edition . New York : W.W. Norton , 2000:2131 - 2141 . 