A Painted House is a 2001 novel by American author John Grisham . Inspired by his childhood in Arkansas , it is Grisham 's first major work outside the legal thriller genre in which he established himself . Set in the late summer and early autumn of 1952 , its story is told through the eyes of seven - year - old Luke Chandler , the youngest in a family of cotton farmers struggling to harvest their crop and earn enough to settle their debts . The novel portrays the experiences that bring him from a world of innocence into one of harsh reality . The story begins to unfold as Luke and his grandfather Eli ( aka Pappy ) search for migrant workers to help them with the cotton picking . They initially consider themselves lucky to hire the Spruills , a family of " hill people , " and a few of the Mexicans who annually come to the area looking for work . Aside from working long hours under the hot sun in the fields , Luke 's life is fairly idyllic until he sees overly aggressive Hank Spruill attack three boys from the notorious Sisco family , one of whom is beaten so severely he dies from his wounds . Hank arrogantly identifies Luke as a friendly witness who can support his version of the event , and the fearful boy backs up his story , although the adults in his life , including local sheriff Stick Powers , suspect he 's too frightened to admit the truth . When Cowboy , one of the Mexicans , later murders Hank and tosses his body into the river , he threatens to kill Luke 's mother if he tells anyone what he saw . Luke also learns that his admired Uncle Ricky , fighting in the Korean War , may have fathered a child with a daughter of their poverty - stricken sharecropping neighbors . Grisham surrounds these dramatic moments with descriptive passages of life in the rural South and the ordinary events that fill Luke 's weekly routine . His hard work in the fields is preceded by a hearty breakfast of eggs , ham , biscuits , and the one cup of coffee his mother allows him , and at day 's end he 's rewarded with an evening on the front porch , where the family gathers around the radio to listen to Harry Carey announce the St. Louis Cardinals games . A devoted fan , Luke is saving his hard - earned money to buy a team baseball warm - up jacket he saw advertised in the Sears , Roebuck catalog . Saturday afternoons are spent in town , where the adults share idle gossip and serious concerns and the youngsters visit the movie house , while Sunday morning is reserved for church . A visiting carnival , the annual town picnic , and Luke 's introduction to television - to see a live broadcast of a World Series game - are additional bits of local color scattered throughout the tale . The book 's title refers to the Chandler house , which never has been painted , a sign of their lower social status in the community . One day Luke discovers someone furtively has been painting the weatherbeaten clapboards white , and eventually he continues the job with the approval of his parents and the assistance of the Mexicans , even contributing some of his own savings for the purchase of paint . The house 's gradual transformation symbolizes the changes 