A Planet Called Treason , a science fiction novel by Orson Scott Card , was originally published in 1979 by St Martin 's Press and Dell Publishing Co . After being heavily revised , the book was republished in 1988 under the title Treason by St. Martin 's Press . The premise of this work of science fiction is the banishment to the seemingly metal - poor planet Treason of a group of people who attempted to create rule by an intellectual elite . The novel centers on the descendants of these anti - democratic thinkers who remain imprisoned on the planet . Through the ages , these descendants have formed nations which warred and allied with one another to gain advantages over their rivals in the race to build a starship . Due to the metal - deficiency on Treason , nations are forced to obtain it through a system of barter using teleportation devices known as Ambassadors . The protagonist of the book is Lanik Mueller , heir apparent to the Mueller family kingdom . The Muellers , through generations of eugenics , have the ability to heal at an accelerated speed and regrow body parts naturally . The dark side to the Mueller nation is that , in order to obtain iron and other metals , they trade organs and body parts , which are harvested from radical regeneratives ( " rads " ) . Radical regeneratives are people whose bodies ca n't distinguish between health and injury , and so grow extra appendages as well as organs of the opposite sex ; although this is a normal phase for most Muellers at the age of puberty , the bodies of radical regeneratives never outgrow it . The banishment comes in the form of sending Lanik as an emissary and spy to the Nkumai , a rival nation . Due to his radical regenerative body , Lanik has grown breasts , which makes him appear to be a woman . Using this subterfuge , he poses as an ambassador from the matriarchal nation of Bird in order to discover what the Nkumai are trading in exchange for their abundant metals , which have allowed them to dominate their region militarily . This mission is only the beginning of the adventure for Lanik , who discovers the secrets of the most powerful nations and at the same time gains additional abilities to save his people and determine the fate of his planet . Lanik travels to many of the regions of the planet Treason throughout the book , and discovers that those residing in different regions have different powers or capabilities . He first passes through the land of the Ku Kuei while on his way to Nkumai , learning that they can control the flow of time in a bubble extending out from themselves . When he comes to the land of Schwartz , he discovers that the people there are able to form rock to their will , as well as take energy from the sun . Lanik learns both of these skills and uses them to kill the " illuders " from Anderson . The illuders , as Lanik calls them , have the ability to appear to be anything they wish , clouding the minds of those around them to their will . The regions of Treason are named after each of the banished inhabitants . Man - Who - Fell - on - His - Ass ( Ku Kuei ) - The first of the Ku Kuei Lanik met . Man - Who 