A Plague of Frogs is a non - fiction enviromental book written by William Souder and published in 2000 by Hyperion Press . The book elaborates on the issue of mutated frogs and the implications for humans . Structurally the book is divided into two parts . The book begins with the discovery of a large number of deformed frogs by schoolteacher Cindy Reinitz and her students in August of 1995 . They were on a field trip to a farm owned by Donald Ney near the town of Henderson , Minnesota . As the students approached the rain - fed pond , the noticed that a large number of the northern leopard frogs ( rana pipiens ) had deformities , such as missing legs , extra legs , and other disfigurements . Concerned about the possibility that the deformities occurred because of a contaminant in the water , Ms. Reinitz contacted the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency ( MPCA ) . As the MPCA did not have an amphibian specialist at the time , Reinitz was referred to the MPCA 's invertebrate researcher , Dr. Judy Helgen . At the time Ms. Helgen was studying frogs as part of an effort to develop a bio - index for measuring the overall health of a pond or wetland . As Helgen was busy at the time , she sent an intern , Joel Chirhart , to investigate the pond . Chirhart is alarmed by the widespread nature of the deformities - present in over 1 / 3 of frogs collected . Later that year , Ms. Helgen called Robert McKinnell , a biologist at the University of Minnesota . Mr. McKinnell is considered the authority on frogs in Minnesota , having specialized in herpetology for over 50 years . While initially the two thought that the deformities were an isolated occurrence that would disappear like an earlier outbreak at Granite Falls , the persistence of leg deformities into late summer and the discovery of other outbreaks , elsewhere around Henderson and elsewhere around the state , such as at Litchfield , quickly disabused of that notion . In that same month ( August 1995 ) , Dennis and Rhonda Bock found many deformed frogs near their lake in Brainerd , Minnesota . At first they were unconcerned , thinking the appearance of these frogs was a freak , but natural occurrence . However , as more reports of frog deformities came from the rest of the state , they grew concerned and called the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources ( DNR ) . While the DNR could not do anything about the frogs , they sent the information on to David Hoppe , a herpetologist at the University of Minnesota Morris campus . Hoppe was unable to come to the Bock 's lake until October , because of previous commitments . When he did manage to go to the Bock property , Hoppe was very surprised , as the Bocks lived on a relatively large natural lake , rather than on the small farm ponds where others had reported deformed frogs . The presence of these deformities in both natural and man - made bodies of water cast doubt on the theory of chemical contamination , as the larger , natural lakes should not have been as susceptible to harboring high concentration of pollutants as smaller , man - made agricultural ponds . The next year Hoppe , Helgen and McKinnell obtained a $150,000 grant from the state to study the frog deformities . Even more sightings of deformed frogs were 