A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man is a semi - autobiographical novel by James Joyce , first serialized in The Egoist from 1914 to 1915 and published in book form in 1916 . It depicts the formative years in the life of Stephen Dedalus , a fictional alter ego of Joyce and a pointed allusion to the consummate craftsman of Greek mythology , Dædalus . A Portrait is a key example of the Künstlerroman ( an artist 's bildungsroman ) in English literature . Joyce 's novel traces the intellectual and religio - philosophical awakening of young Stephen Dedalus as he begins to question and rebel against the Catholic and Irish conventions he has been brought up in . He finally leaves for Paris to pursue his calling as an artist . The work pioneers some of Joyce 's modernist techniques that would later come to fruition in Ulysses and Finnegans Wake . The Modern Library ranked Portrait as the third greatest English language novel of the twentieth century . Portrait is a complete rewrite of his earlier attempt at the story , Stephen Hero , which he grew frustrated with in 1905 . Large portions of Stephen Hero found their way , sometimes nearly unchanged , into Portrait , but the tone was changed considerably in order to focus more exclusively on the perspective of Stephen Dedalus . For instance , several of his siblings made prominent appearances in the earlier novel , but are almost completely absent in Portrait . The incomplete first draft of Stephen Hero was published posthumously in 1944 . Stylistically , the novel is written as a third person narrative with minimal dialogue , though towards the very end of the book dialogue - intensive scenes and finally journal entries by Stephen are introduced to mirror his alienation from society . Since the work covers Stephen 's life from the time he was a child to his growing independence and ultimate abandoning of Ireland as a young man , the style of the work progresses through each of its five chapters , with the complexity of language gradually increasing . However , throughout the work , language and prose are used to portray indirectly the state of mind of the protagonist , and the subjective impact of the events of his life . Hence the fungible length of some scenes and chapters , where Joyce 's intent was to capture the subjective experience through language , rather than to present the actual experience through prose narrative . Because of the first page of the novel , which is sui generis to the rest of the Portrait but very similar in style to Joyce 's later novel Finnegans Wake , a reader may erroneously conclude that the Portrait as a whole is a stream of consciousness narrative along the lines of Beckett , Gertrude Stein , or Joyce 's own Ulysses . This is not the case . The book is set in Joyce 's native Ireland , especially in Dublin . It deals with many Irish issues such as the quest for autonomy and the role of the Catholic church . The myth of Daedalus and Icarus figures largely in the novel . In Greek myth , Daedalus was an architect and inventor who becomes trapped in a labyrinth of his own construction . He later escapes and fashions wings of feathers and wax for his son and himself to escape the island they are on . As they fly away Icarus grows bolder and flies higher , until finally he 