A Princess of Mars is an Edgar Rice Burroughs science fiction novel , the first of his famous Barsoom series . It is also Burroughs ' first novel , predating any of his famous Tarzan novels . He wrote it between July and September 28 , 1911 , going through four working titles ; initially , he was going to call it My First Adventure on Mars , then The Green Martians , Dejah Thoris , Martian Princess , and finally Under the Moons of Mars . The finished story was first published under the last of these titles in All - Story as a six - part serial in the issues for February - July 1912 . For the serial publication , the author 's name was given as " Norman Bean " ; Burroughs had chosen the pseudonym of " Normal Bean " as a type of pun stressing that he was in his right mind , being concerned he might suffer ridicule for writing such a fantastic story . The effect was spoiled when a typesetter changed " Normal " to " Norman " on the assumption that the former was a typographical error . The story was later published as a complete novel under the present title by A. C. McClurg in October 1917 . Full of swordplay and daring feats , the story is considered a classic example of 20th century pulp fiction . John Carter , an American Civil War veteran , goes prospecting in Arizona and , when set upon by Indians , is mysteriously transported to Mars . Called " Barsoom " by its inhabitants , Carter finds that he has demigod - like strength on this planet , due to its lesser gravity . Carter soon falls in among the Tharks , a nomadic tribe of the planet 's warlike , four - armed , green inhabitants . Thanks to his strength and combat abilities , he soon rises to a position of respect in the tribe . The Tharks subsequently capture Dejah Thoris , Princess of Helium , a member of the humanoid red Martian race . The red Martians inhabit a loose network of city states and control the desert planet 's canals along which its agriculture is concentrated . Carter rescues her from the green men to return her to her people . Except for some jewelry , all of the planet 's races seem to eschew clothing and look down upon Earth 's inhabitants because they do wear clothing . And the sight which met my eyes was that of a slender , girlish figure , similar in every detail to the earthly women of my past life . . . . Her face was oval and beautiful in the extreme , her every feature was finely chiseled and exquisite , her eyes large and lustrous and her head surmounted by a mass of coal black , waving hair , caught loosely into a strange yet becoming coiffure . Her skin was of a light reddish copper color , against which the crimson glow of her cheeks and the ruby of her beautifully molded lips shone with a strangely enhancing effect . She was as destitute of clothes as the green Martians who accompanied her ; indeed , save for her highly wrought ornaments she was entirely naked , nor could any apparel have enhanced the beauty of her perfect and symmetrical figure . Subsequently Carter becomes embroiled in the political affairs of both the red and green men in his efforts to safeguard his princess , 