A Prayer for Owen Meany is a novel by American writer John Irving , first published in 1989 . The novel is told through the eyes of an older , very much matured John Wheelwright who elaborates on the events surrounding his teenage friendship during the 1950s and 1960s with Owen Meany , whom John credits as being the reason he believes in God . Owen is disproportionately short and his voicebox is fixed so that he sounds as if he is always screaming . Owen 's short stature makes him the butt of many jokes and pranks but not in a typical bullying manner . Children and adults alike seem drawn to Owen , almost protective of him . Owen is also the recipient of many special privileges , such as getting to play the baby Jesus in a Christmas pageant because he is the only actor who can fit in the crib and not cry . The novel deals with several lofty spiritual issues , such as the importance of faith , social justice , and fate . John and Owen both offer criticisms of some aspects of organized religion and the hypocrisy of some religious people throughout the novel . The spiritual dimension is also emphasized by Owen 's repeated foretelling of his own impending death . He is quite certain that his death will be the result of his being an " instrument of God " , that his death will serve some good purpose . He even believes that he knows the date of his death , and that an heroic act on his part will kill him , but also save some children . He is a bit unclear , however , about where it will happen . The narrative is constructed as the interweaving of three different stories of the interwoven lives of John and Owen . There is the historical retelling of John and Owen 's childhood , the story of their ( and particularly Owen 's ) adult life and the story of John 's life after Owen 's death . The three streams are brought together at the denoument - the death of Owen . Owen always predicted both the manner and the importance of his own death . The familiar Irving setting of a New England school sets this in the framework of his other works . However , other familiar Irving themes and settings ( e.g. prostitutes , wrestling , Vienna , and sexual relationships between young men and older women ) are missing , or mentioned only briefly . Young John is skeptical of Owen 's unquestioned belief in the purpose of all things for several reasons , namely , his mother 's premature death ( as the result of the impact of a baseball hit by Owen ) , and his mother 's failure ever to disclose his father 's identity . John is depicted as being spiritually apathetic as a youth , but the conclusion brings these spiritual pieces of the story together . Since the novel is written retrospectively , much of the novel takes the tone of John 's newfound wisdom . John occasionally withdraws from the past to offer criticisms of the Vietnam War and the Iran - Contra Affair . The setting is based on Phillips Exeter Academy , in Exeter , New Hampshire . A real - life John Wheelwright was the founder of the town of Exeter in 1638 . The 1998 feature - length film Simon Birch , directed by Mark Steven Johnson , was loosely based on 