A Rebel Life : Murder by the Rich by Peter Kalafatis , is a true story about growing up hardcore punk , in the streets of New York City , with violent gangs , drugged - up , aimlessly rebelling , and searching for meaning to life . Here are the words of a man 's psychotic break , written in a letter during the three days leading to his younger brother 's funeral . You will be captivated by the visual scenes painted with the language of the working class , as you observe the author 's crude emotions from his brother’s death and futile search for revenge of an enemy that no one perceives . A Rebel Life is written as a novel , with straightforward language , wrapped with an existential anarchist undertone that has a declarative manifesto roar of the true cause to some of the trappings kids of the working class fall into–violence , drugs and gangs . The author is in a timeless battle against his natural enemy – the cause to his ignorance that wasted part of his life on the streets and kept him aimlessly fighting his own working class people – the source to all the pain in his Brooklyn neighborhood – the origin to the violence on the streets – and the reason why his brother eventually died of an overdose . This source of working class misery is the perpetual weed of history – The Rich . The story takes place from Peter , the older brother’s perspective , of the three days leading to his younger brother , Archie’s funeral . Memories of what directed him and his brother to their outcomes and dreams of what should have been interrupt the long three days . Peter’s guilt of leaving his brother in the streets finally snapped a long and delicate psychosis he had with blaming the rich for the problems of the world . Growing up punk rock in NYC during the late eighties , Peter had always seen the rich as manipulating and exploiting his kind , the working class , and also recognized them as the cause of his street life , no matter how many times his own kind tried to convince otherwise . He states in the book that enlightened people with real choices don’t “choose” to remain ignorant and exist meaningless attached to human qualities that resemble animals . Peter’s anger toward a class of people that created the misery and hardships of his working class Brooklyn neighborhood sent him raging into the streets at sixteen . He watched his mother and father struggle to put food on the table by working tirelessly for bosses in restaurants that seen them as lower human beings . That work - shit - work existence bled the life out of his parents and the anger logically fell downward to their kids . They worked themselves mindlessly to gain some sort monitory pile that could make the family feel accomplished and significant . In doing so - it made the brothers feel fake – so they rebelled . They joined gangs . They found a true family with the angry hardcore music scene . Peter was on the streets at sixteen , tattooed from neck to fingers by eighteen , living in squats , uneducated , in gangs , and drunk most of the time . He searched for meaning to his life , by embracing the nihilistic thinking of the punk rockers and anarchists that littered the lower east side streets of Manhattan . At the 