A Right to Die is a Nero Wolfe mystery novel by Rex Stout , first published by the Viking Press in 1964 . The novel is set against the background of the Civil Rights Act conflict in the Johnson Administration . At the begininng of the book , Paul Whipple , a black character from the earlier 1938 novel Too Many Cooks , of whom Wolfe had gained the trust against a strong West Virginia atmosphere of prejudice , comes to tell Wolfe that Wolfe has since become his hero , and that he has also achieved the dream , stated in the earlier novel , of being an anthropologist . He has come , however , to draw upon the favor he did Wolfe 26 years earlier , by asking Wolfe to prevent his son Dunbar Whipple from marrying a rich white girl , Susan Brooke , he is apparently in love with . While denying that he is not opposed , in principle at least , to a mixed - race couples , Paul Whipple thinks that sensible rich white girls do n't fall in love with poor black men , even if the rich white girl is working for a black civil rights organization in New York . Wolfe is loathe to interfere in the matter , but agrees to at least learn what he can about the true movitations of the socialite girlfriend and why she would be interested in a Negro boyfriend . Before the real mystery story gets underway , Stout allows some give and take on the concept of racism being a two - way street : blacks preferring their own as much as whites . The matter takes a much nastier turn when Susan Brooke is murdered and Dunbar Whipple is arrested as the prime suspect . As a whodunit , the book is not very complex , but it is a good period piece showing racial attitudes both of self - consciously unprejudiced people of that era ( Stout himself , and the characters in the book ) and those of bigots . Regarding the latter , Stout shows how a climate of racism , combined with mundane realities of life can incite the bigot to violence . In fact , the violence might have occurred without the racial overtones , and over - emphasis on race can be seen a poisonous element to everybody concerned . In the course of the book , Susan Brooke is shown to have been a femme fatale for at least one earlier white boyfriend , perhaps justifying Paul 's initial suspicions , or perhaps just being an unfortunate coincidence depending on the reader 's own attitudes to such things . At the end of the book , Dunbar Whipple takes an interest in a black girl , which disappoints Archie but pleases Dunbar 's parents , particularly his mother . As noted earlier , Rex Stout had already had Nero Wolfe make civil rights a central issue in his 1938 Wolfe novel Too Many Cooks , although in that case his client was a not a black man , and so while many books were being written in that time period about the civil rights of Black Americans , few mainstream authors were writing a civil - rights sequel to a novel from 1938 . The book 's title causes some consternation even to many who have read the book several times . In principle , the plot is age - old : a woman punishes the woman who jilted her son and drove 