A Ring of Endless Light is a 1980 novel by Madeleine L'Engle . The book tells of a girl named Vicky and her struggle to understand life as she deals with her dying grandfather , while at the same time finding love . Fifteen year old Vicky Austin is spending the summer on Seven Bay Island with her family to visit her maternal grandfather who is dying of Leukemia . At the beginning of the story , Vicky is seen standing at a funeral for Commander Rodney , a family friend . Nearby stands the commander 's wife , and his two oldest sons , Leo and Jacky who own a launch boat business . It is at the funeral that Vicky first meets Adam Eddington , an intern at the Island 's research base and a friend of Vicky 's brother , John . When Vicky and her family return home she sees Zachary Gray , an old friend whom her family does not particularly like . It was Zachary who had indirectly caused Commander Rodney 's death ; the commander had drowned while saving Zachary from a suicide attempt . The news of this sets Vicky on a train of thought that continues throughout the book ; the mysterious and ( to Vicky ) frightening topic of death . During the course of the story , Vicky finds herself in a tangle of three romances ; one with Leo , one with Zachary , and one with Adam , whom she is helping with a project on dolphin and human communication ( ESP ) with three dolphins : Basil , Norberta , and Njord . Vicky discovers a remarkable rapport with the dolphins , a rapport that teeters on telepathy . Also , her grandfather has been hemorrhaging , and Vicky often goes with Leo to pick up blood . There at the hospital , she meets a girl named Binnie who is sick with a type of leukemia and has seizures . One night , her grandfather starts to hemorrhage and is sent to the hospital . Vicky is on a date with Zachary , and does not know about her grandfather until they come to the dock and see that Leo is not there to pick them up . Once in the hospital , Vicky waits in the emergency room and sees Binnie . Binnie has just fainted because she had a seizure , and is thrust into Vicky 's arms as Binnie 's mother goes to find a nurse . In Vicky 's arms , Binnie has a convulsion and dies . At that moment , she is sent into a wave of darkness , wherein she is trying to hold on to the real world , learning that Zachary left her alone in the hospital , and constantly thinking of Adam . At that moment she feels hands on hers - Adam 's . He tells her that she " called " him ( meaning with ESP ) and he came . During the next day , Vicky is still in a wave of darkness , and no one seems able to get her out . Finally , Adam has an idea . He takes her to the dolphins she works with , and she plays with them , breaking the darkness . At the end of the story , Vicky finally finds refuge in Adam 's arms . The primary theme of the story is death , and continuing to appreciate and choose life in the face of it . Vicki is surrounded 