This article is about the book . For the film , see A Room with a View ( film ) . A Room with a View is a 1908 novel by English writer E. M. Forster , about a young woman in the repressed culture of Edwardian England . Set in Italy and England , the story is both a romance and a critique of English society at the beginning of the 20th century . Merchant - Ivory produced an award - winning film adaptation in 1985 . Lucy Honeychurch is a young Englishwoman visiting Florence , Italy with her older cousin , Charlotte Bartlett . Dining at their hotel , they complain that their rooms lack the views that they were promised . A fellow pensioner , Mr. Emerson , offers them his and his son 's ( George ) rooms , which have views of the Arno . Charlotte ungraciously refuses , thinking it would place them under an unseemly " obligation. " . Another guest , an Anglican clergyman named Mr. Beebe , convinces her to accept the Emersons ' offer . Although a bright and talented girl , Lucy is young and not very inquisitive . Her inner passion shows itself only when she plays Beethoven on the piano , impressing Mr. Beebe . He fancies himself less strait - laced than his fellow clergymen , and is intrigued by the contrast between Lucy 's emotional piano playing and her mundane life . Lucy continues to bump into the eccentric Emersons in Florence . Although their manners are awkward and they are deemed socially unacceptable by the other pensioners , Lucy likes them . One afternoon , as Lucy tours Florence on her own , she witnesses a murder . George Emerson happens to be nearby and catches her when she faints . As the two make their way back along the river , they have an oddly intimate conversation . She is puzzled by her new feelings toward George and decides to avoid him . However , on a group picnic to Fiesole , Lucy accidentally stumbles into George on a hillside He kisses her , but they are abruptly interrupted by Charlotte . Charlotte makes Lucy promise that she will never tell anyone , even her mother , of what happened , and the two women leave for Rome the next day . In Rome , Lucy spends time with Cecil Vyse , who she knew in England . Cecil proposes to Lucy twice in Italy ; she rejects him both times . As Part Two begins , Lucy has returned to Surrey , England to her family home , Windy Corner . Cecil proposes yet again and this time , she accepts . Cecil is a sophisticated and " superior " Londoner who is eligible in terms of rank and class , even though he despises country society . The local vicar , Mr. Beebe , announces that new tenants have leased a local cottage : the new arrivals turn out to be the Emersons . Fate takes an ironic turn as Lucy 's brother Freddy befriends George and invites him to play tennis one Sunday at Windy Corner . Although Lucy is initially mortified at the thought of facing both George and Cecil ( who is also visiting Windy Corner that Sunday ) , she resolves to be gracious . Cecil annoys everyone by reading aloud from a cheap romance novel that contains a scene suspiciously reminiscent of when George kissed Lucy in Florence . George catches Lucy alone in the garden 