A Sand County Almanac is a 1949 book by American ecologist and environmentalist Aldo Leopold . It was edited and published by his son , Luna , a year after Leopold 's death from a heart attack . It is considered to be a landmark book in the conservation movement , describing the lands around Leopold 's home in Sauk County , Wisconsin , and his thoughts on developing a " Land Ethic. " . The book has had over 2 million copies printed and has been translated into nine languages . In the original publishing , the books begins with the actual " Sand County Almanac , " which is divided into twelve segments - - one for each month . There are anecdotes and observations about flora and fauna 's reactions to the seasons as well as mentions of conservation topics . The second section of the book , " Sketches Here and There , " discusses a few other wildernesses in the U.S. and how conservation , or lack thereof , affects them . The book ends with " Land Ethic , " which is Leopold 's plan for conservation . Leopold 's idea is that that land is not a commodity to be possessed ; rather , humans must have mutual respect for Earth in order to not destroy it . He also puts forth the idea that humans will never be free if they have no wild spaces in which to roam . Vital awareness is the argument for the supremacy of awareness over book learning . Leopold describes the March goose who is " staking two hundred miles of black night on the chance of finding a hole in the lake . . .with the conviction of a prophet who has burned his bridges. " . He compares this goose to a well - educated woman who says she has never heard or seen the geese who yearly proclaim the seasons . The goose who trades his is soon a pile of feathers " ( page 20 ) . It is to Leopold 's credit that he listens to his own advice , and creates a living land in the mind to help us see the importance of a land ethic . The book begins by taking the reader through the seasons on his farmed - out farmstead in central Wisconsin , providing a rich and detailed picture of the rhythm of life on the land . In Part II the book expands in both territory and time , taking the reader to various areas of the country and describing the natural and human history of each place . By the time the reader reaches Part III ( " A Taste for Country , " a set of essays from Round River inserted in 1966 ) , there is an experiential foundation for the philosophical ideas presented . When Leopold finally presents the Land Ethic in Part IV , we're fully ready to absorb it , based on the awareness created by Leopold 's luminous prose . Leopold calls this " a fact long known , but forgotten recently. " . Throughout the book , he uses experience to create an ongoing awareness of the continuity between human culture and the land . The simple act of cutting a dead tree for firewood becomes a lesson in the interweaving of natural history and social history . Each bite of the blade into an earlier ring of the tree gives us a story , both human and natural . And as the " fragrant little 