A Scanner Darkly is a 1977 science fiction novel by Philip K. Dick . The semi - autobiographical story was set in a dystopian Orange County , California in the future of June 1994 . The book includes an extensive portrayal of drug culture and drug use . I was a child , I spoke as a child , I understood as a child , I thought as a child : but when I became a man , I put away childish things.For now we see through a glass , darkly ; but then face to face : now I know in part ; but then shall I know even as also I am known . The book 's protagonist is required to view clips of his life on a " scanner " , a holographic recorder / projector . In Chapter 13 of the book , the protagonist muses that he has seen his life with a scanner , but came no closer to properly perceiving his life than St Paul with his primitive mirror ( or " glass " ) . True understanding , he suggests , will come only when " death " is defeated . The initials of Scanner Darkly are also the initials of Substance D , which the characters refer to as Slow Death , Substance Death , or simply D . I hope it does see clearly , because I ca n't any longer these days see into myself . I see only murk . Murk outside ; murk inside . I hope , for everyone 's sake , the scanners do better . Because if the scanner sees only darkly , the way I myself do , then we are cursed , cursed again and like we have been continually , and we'll wind up dead this way , knowing very little and getting that little fragment wrong too . The protagonist is both Bob Arctor , member of a household of drop - out drug - users , and Agent Fred , an undercover police agent assigned to spy on them . Arctor / Fred shields his true identity both from those in the drug subculture and , ironically , from the police themselves . The requirement that narcotics agents remain anonymous , to avoid collusion and other forms of corruption , becomes a critical plot point late in the book . While supposedly only posing as a drug user , Arctor becomes addicted to Substance D ( also known as Slow Death , Death or D ) , a powerful psychoactive drug . An ongoing conflict is Arctor 's love for Donna , a drug dealer through whom he intends to identify high - level dealers of Substance D. Arctor 's persistent use of the drug , which causes the two hemispheres of the brain to function independently , produces the strange scenario in which Arctor and Agent Fred do not realize they are the same person . Incapable of combining what each persona knows , Fred begins spying on himself , Arctor , more passionately . Through a series of drug and psychological tests , Arctor 's superiors at work discover that his addiction has made him incapable of performing his job as a narcotics agent . Donna takes Arctor to " New - Path " , a rehabilitation clinic , just as Arctor begins to experience the symptoms of Substance D withdrawal . It is revealed that Donna has been a narcotics agent all along , working as part of a police operation to infiltrate New - Path 