A Series of Unfortunate Events is a children 's book series , written by Daniel Handler under the pseudonym of Lemony Snicket , and illustrated by Brett Helquist . The first book in the series was The Bad Beginning , released on September 30 , 1999 , by HarperCollins Children 's Books . The thirteenth and final book , The End , was released on Friday , October 13 , 2006 . A film version based on the first three books in the series , The Bad Beginning , The Reptile Room , and The Wide Window , was released on December 17 , 2004 , as Lemony Snicket 's A Series of Unfortunate Events . Daniel Handler has said in an interview with The A.V. Club that he decided to write a children 's story when he was trying to find a publisher for his first novel , The Basic Eight . One of the publishers said that they would not publish the book , but they were interested in him writing a story for children . Handler thought it was a terrible idea , but decided to meet with the publisher in a bar later anyway . He explained his idea for a " Gothic novel about children growing up through terrible things " , a concept which the publisher liked , to Handler 's surprise . He then wrote the first book in the series , The Bad Beginning , which the publisher , HarperCollins accepted and published . The series follows the adventures of three unlucky siblings , Violet , Klaus and Sunny Baudelaire , after their parents were killed in a fire at the family mansion . In The Bad Beginning , they briefly live with a friend of their parents , Mr. Poe , who is the person in charge of the Baudelaire fortune after the Baudelaire parents ' deaths , before being sent to live with Count Olaf , who is supposedly either the siblings ' third cousin four times removed , or their fourth cousin three times removed . The siblings discover quickly that Olaf has a tattoo of an eye on his left ankle , and more importantly , that he intends to get his hands on the Baudelaire fortune , which awaits Violet when she turns eighteen . In the following six books , Olaf follows the children wherever they go in a disguise so he can get closer to the orphans and steal their fortune . The orphans routinely try to get help from Mr. Poe , the banker with whom the Baudelaires briefly lived with , but Poe is always either busy with work , oblivious to Olaf 's danger or unaware that the disguised Olaf is not who he claims to be . Each of the three siblings have a distinctive skill that often helps them during their adventures . Violet is always inventing new things to help them , Klaus is always finding out new information through his research , and Sunny has extremely sharp teeth that can bite almost anything in two . In later books , Sunny learns how to cook , as she begins to grow to the normal size for her teeth so cooking becomes her primary skill . Sunny originally spoke in single word utterances which are often a variety of incomplete sentences , and some short word sentences as well . Lemony Snicket , the author of the stories and the pseudonym of Daniel Handler , is actually a character himself on the periphery of the stories . He follows 