A Separate Peace ( 1959 ) is an award - winningnovel written by John Knowles set in the fictional Devon School in New Hampshire during World War II . The book explores the human condition , hate , vengeance , and guilt . In 1972 , it was adapted into a movie starring Parker Stevenson and John Heyl . It was also made into a TV movie in 2004 . They are the narrators of the novel and appear at two different time periods : as a middle - aged man re - visiting Devon fifteen years after being a student there , and , for the majority of the novel , as a sixteen and seventeen - year - old student during World War II . The novel is written in the past tense , and we assume that Gene 's narration is triggered by his re - visitation of his old school when he is thirty - two . And although the older narrator seems long past the emotional turmoil that marked his schoolboy days , the events of his years at Devon are told as if they were occurring in the present , as if our narrator were still sixteen years old . The Gene that we encounter for the bulk of the novel is , like many of his classmates , at a liminal stage in his life - the adolescence between boyhood and manhood . This transition is further emphasized by the war , Gene being in the final years of freedom before the ravages of a world war can legally claim him . Outwardly Gene is one of the top students in his class and a talented athlete . These traits earn him respect on campus and , most importantly , the friendship of Phineas , whom Gene respects more than any of his fellow classmates . But inwardly , Gene is plagued by the darker forces of human nature , forces which prey upon the turbulence of adolescence . Gene 's admiration and love for Finny is balanced and marred by his fierce jealousy of him , by a deep insecurity in himself , and , because of his insecurity , a need to compete with and " defeat " his friend at all costs . Gene 's internal emotional battles are the major source of conflict and tension in the novel . Brinker is an elitist student leader . He is , in some ways , a foil to Finny 's character . He is also a charismatic student leader , but his devotion is to order and rules , while Finny 's is to spontaneity and anarchic fun . While Finny embodied the spirit of the " summer session , " Brinker is the king of the winter session , with its return of discipline and constant reminders of approaching war . A noted " joker , " he is the first to accuse Gene of causing Phineas 's accident . Later in the novel , Brinker organizes a " trial " with his cronies to " uncover the facts " behind Finny 's accident . Brinker 's name is symbolic , as he tends to push people " to the brink " ; this is demonstrated many times in the book , most obviously during the trial . Leper is the isolationist of the novel who was often ridiculed by fellow classmates . He was present when Finny " fell " from the tree . Eventually Leper , surprising his classmates , enlists in the ski to a mental breakdown 