A Severed Head is a satirical , sometimes farcical 1961 novel by Iris Murdoch . Primary themes include marriage , adultery , and incest within a group of civilized and educated people . Set in and around London , it depicts a power struggle between grown - up middle class people who are lucky to be free of real problems . A Severed Head was a harbinger of the Sexual Revolution that was to hit Britain in the 1960s and ' 70s . Martin Lynch - Gibbon is a 41 - year - old well - to - do wine merchant whose childless marriage to an older woman called Antonia has been one of convenience rather than love . It never occurs to him that his ongoing affair with a young academic called Georgie could be immoral . Displaying quite a number of macho attributes in his relationships with women , Lynch - Gibbon is shocked when , out of the blue , his wife tells him that she is going to leave him for Palmer Anderson , her psychoanalyst and a friend of the couple 's , with whom she has had a secret affair for quite some time . Lynch - Gibbon moves out of their London house but still does not want to publicize his affair with Georgie , let alone become engaged to her . At roughly the same time Cupid 's arrow hits Lynch - Gibbon again . This time he falls for Honor Klein , Anderson 's stepsister , who is a lecturer in anthropology at Cambridge , a woman who , on seeing her for the first time , he remembers finding rather repulsive . Like a man possessed , he follows her to Cambridge and , in the middle of the night , breaks into her house , only to find her in bed with her stepbrother . Lynch - Gibbon 's world starts disintegrating . Despite his being a wine merchant , he chooses whisky as his constant companion . In the end , however , he realizes that life must - - and somehow will - - go on . In A Severed Head , Murdoch succeeds in presenting a middle - aged bourgeois who initially thinks of himself as a survivor but realizes that he is in fact a victim . Throughout the novel , all the main characters insist that they have long overcome conventional morality , that they are free agents in the truest sense of the word , but in spite of his hedonism Lynch - Gibbon 's residual moral posture just will not go away . Murdoch is particularly good at conveying the atmosphere of benevolence and the apparent lack of hard feelings among the individuals that have wronged and been wronged . In a strange and rather wonderful way we ca n't do without you . Despite these serious overtones , A Severed Head is regarded by many readers as the most entertaining of Murdoch 's novels . As British novelist William Sutcliffe put it , " Of all the lots - of - people - screwing - lots - of - other - people novels this is probably the best , and certainly the weirdest . With less philosophising and more shagging than Murdoch 's other books , it is a joy to see this wonderful writer let her hair ( and her knickers ) down. " . Together with J. B. Priestley , Murdoch adapted her book for the stage . After four previews , the Broadway production , directed by Val 