This historical seafaring novel by C. S. Forester follows his fictional hero Horatio Hornblower during his tour as captain of a ship of the line . By an internal chronology , A Ship of the Line , which follows The Happy Return , is the seventh book in the series ( counting the unfinished Hornblower and the Crisis ) . However , the book , published in 1938 , was the second Horatio Hornblower novel completed by Forester . Hornblower has recently returned to England in the frigate HMS Lydia , having gained widespread fame ( but no financial stability ) as a result of sinking the superior ship Natividad in battle . As a reward for his exploits , he is given command of HMS Sutherland , which is , in Hornblower 's estimation , the ugliest ship of the line in the Royal Navy . He is assigned to serve under Rear Admiral Leighton , Lady Barbara Wellesley 's new husband . Throughout , Hornblower is torn between his love for Lady Barbara and his sense of duty and loyalty to his frumpy wife , Maria . His feelings for his wife are complicated by the previous loss of both of his children to smallpox . Hornblower 's first orders are to escort an East Indian convoy off the Spanish coast . He masterfully defends them from simultaneous attack by two faster , more maneuverable privateers . Since he has been forced to sail with an understrength crew , and had to make do with " lubbers , sheepstealers , and bigamists " , he breaks admiralty regulations and impresses twenty men from each vessel in the convoy just before they part ways . With his ship fully manned , Hornblower wreaks havoc on the French - controlled Spanish coast . He captures a French brig by surprise , storms a French fort , takes two more vessels as prizes , repeatedly fires upon several thousand French soldiers marching along a coastal road , and saves his Admiral 's ship from certain ruin by towing it away from a French battery during a severe storm . When he encounters a squadron of four French ships of the line that have broken through the English blockade of Toulouse , he attacks them against overwhelming odds , and manages to disable or heavily damage all of them . However , with many of his men killed or wounded and his ship dismasted , he is forced to strike his colors and surrender . 