A Small Boy and Others is a book of autobiography by Henry James published in 1913 . The book covers James ' earliest years and discusses his intellectually active family , his intermittent schooling , and his first trips to Europe . This memoir tells of a precocious boy who loved the sights and sounds of his childhood but felt reticent about full participation in life . He was to go without many things , ever so many—as all people do in whom contemplation takes so much the place of action ; but everywhere . . .he was to enjoy more than anything the so far from showy practice of wondering and dawdling and gaping : he was really , I think , much to profit by it. " . James clearly suffered from a sense of his inferiority in the " showy " , active parts of life . His older brother William always seemed superior in ability ; his classmates scorned his hopelessness at math and science ; even at a party he felt too embarrassed to join in the dancing . But he still observed and fantasized about all his family and his surroundings had to offer . When a cousin of his was told " do n't make a scene , " he suddenly realized that scenes could be made by telling a story or inventing a play . He went often to the theater and fell forever under its spell . I was suspecting it ! . So young and so depraved ! " . In fact , for all his surface diffidence , James harbored almost Napoleonic dreams of glory as an artist . Near the close of A Small Boy and Others he tells how , in much later years , he dreamed of routing a monstrous attacker and chasing him away through the halls of the Louvre , which he had seen as a child . The small boy , as hesitant and uncertain as he might seem , would triumph over his fears and develop his superb aptitude for narrative fiction . Although couched in the novelist 's densest prose— " late late James , " as one critic put it—A Small Boy and Others has enjoyed mostly favorable commentary . Critics have appreciated how James speaks honestly about his childhood hesitancies and feelings of inadequacy . James narrates many stories of his family life and his desultory , sometimes erratic education with welcome humor and unfailing grace . The book ends with a nearly fatal attack of typhus suffered by the fourteen - year - old James in France . Always ready to convert any experience to literary use , James employs the attack as a break in his life - story , which would be taken up in the sequel , Notes of a Son and Brother . 