A Spell for Chameleon is the first book of the Xanth series by Piers Anthony . In this adventure , Bink is banned from Xanth and exiled into drear Mundania ( the non - magical portion of Earth ) for his apparent lack of a magic talent . He eventually returns in the company of Chameleon , a woman whose intelligence and beauty vary inversely depending on the time of the month , and the evil magician Trent who was exiled 20 years earlier for attempting to usurp the throne of Xanth . Eventually , and to his great relief , Bink discovers that he possesses what is perhaps the most powerful talent of all : he cannot be harmed by magic . However he must now make the hardest decision of his life : whether to help stop Trent from becoming King of Xanth , or help him . At the beginning of the novel Bink is facing imminent exile from the magical land of Xanth and separation from his fiancee Sabrina for his apparent lack of a magic talent . At this time all human residents of Xanth possess some unique form of magic that ranges from incredibly powerful ( such as the current King Aeolus 's ability to summon and control storms ) to relatively useless ( such as the ability to make a spot appear on a wall ) . In the hopes of discovering his talent Bink sets out to see the Good Magician Humfrey , a magician whose talent has to do with the gathering of information . While on his way Bink fights his way through the perilous wilderness of Xanth , having several run - ins with dangerous plants and animals but always being saved by apparent coincidence . On this journey he meets several people , among them Chester Centaur and Cherie Centaur and Crombie The Soldier . Of particular interest are three different women he meets : Wynne who is pretty but stupid , Dee an average girl and the sorceress Iris whose power is the creation of illusions . Wynne and Dee are actually different aspects of the same woman , Chameleon although Bink does not realize this at the time . Chameleon 's intelligence and beauty vary inversely according to the time of the month and she has been unable to find a man who is willing to be with her through all 3 phases . When she meets Bink she falls in love with him and begins to follow him . Although Iris possesses magic of the same caliber as the Storm King she is barred from the throne because she is a woman . After saving Bink from an illusory trap , Iris offers him the chance to remain in Xanth as a figurehead king : Iris will use her power to make it appear as if Bink has magician caliber magic . Loyal to Xanth and realizing that he would be nothing more than a slave , Bink refuses her offer and continues on his journey . Bink finally arrives at the Good Magician 's castle and fights his way past three challenges to gain an audience with him . Humfrey is able to determine that Bink possesses magician - caliber magic but is prevented from fathoming its nature by a series of coincidences . Realizing that some powerful force is at work Humfrey decides to leave well enough alone and sends Bink on his way with a signed note to the King saying that Bink does indeed possess magic . Bink returns to the 