A Strange Manuscript Found in a Copper Cylinder is the most popular book by James De Mille . It was serialized posthumously in Harper 's Weekly , and published in book form by Harper and Brothers of New York City in 1888 . It was subsequently serialized in the United Kingdom and Australia , and published in book form in the United Kingdom and Canada . Later editions were published from the plates of the Harper and Brothers first edition , in the late 19th and early 20th centuries . The satiric and fantastic romance is set in an imaginary semi - tropical land in Antarctica inhabited by prehistoric monsters and a cult of death - worshipers . Begun many years before it was published , it recalls Edgar Allan Poe 's Narrative of Gordon Pym and anticipates the exotic locale and fantasy - adventure elements of works by H. Rider Haggard such as She and King Solomon 's Mines , and Arthur Conan Doyle 's The Lost World , as well as innumerable prehistoric world movies based loosely on these and other works . The title and locale were inspired by Edgar Allan Poe 's Ms. Found in a Bottle . The main story of the novel is the narrative of the adventures of Adam More , a British sailor shipwrecked on the homeward voyage from Tasmania . After passing through a subterranean tunnel of volcanic origin , he finds himself in a " lost world " of prehistoric animals , plants and people sustained by volcanic heat despite the long Antarctic night . A secondary plot about the four yachtsmen who find the manuscript written by Adam More and sealed in a copper cylinder forms a frame for the central narrative . In his strange volcanic world , More also finds a highly developed human society which in the tradition of topsy - turvy worlds of folklore and satire ( compare Sir Thomas More 's Utopia , Erewhon by Samuel Butler , or Charlotte Perkins Gilman 's Herland ) has reversed the values of Victorian society : wealth is scorned and poverty is revered , death and darkness are preferred to life and light . Rather than accumulating wealth , the natives seek to divest themselves of it as quickly as possible . Whatever they fail to give away to the abject rich is confiscated by the government , which imposes the burden of wealth upon its unfortunate subjects at the beginning of the next year of reverse taxation as a form of punishment . It was unfortunate for De Mille 's reputation as a writer that this work , his best , was published after She and King Solomon 's Mines , for although Haggard 's works were well - known by then , the actual composition of De Mille 's romance pre - dated the publication of the popular romances and his ideas were not in the least derivative from Haggard 's better known works . A scholarly edition of the work was published by the Centre for Editing Early Canadian Texts ( CEECT ) ( see below ) . This edition is the source of the information provided by this article . Bleiler , Everett ( 1948 ) . The Checklist of Fantastic Literature . Chicago : Shasta Publishers , 27 . A Strange Manuscript Found in a Copper Cylinder was first published in nineteen installments in Harper 's Weekly , Vol . 32 , from January 7 , 1888 ( No. 1620 ) to May 12 , 1888 ( No. 1638 ) . Each 