It is significant as the first story to feature the character of Sherlock Holmes , who would later go on to become one of the most famous and iconic literary detective characters , with long - lasting interest and appeal . Conan Doyle wrote the novel at the age of 27 . A general practice doctor in Southsea , England , he had already published short stories in several magazines of the day , such as the periodical London Society . The story was originally titled A Tangled Skein , and was eventually published by Ward , Lock & Co. in Beeton 's Christmas Annual 1887 , after many rejections . The author received £25 in return for the full rights ( although Conan Doyle had pressed for a royalty instead ) . The novel was produced in book form in July 1888 , published by Ward , Lock & Co . This book was illustrated by Arthur Conan Doyle 's father , Charles Doyle . A second edition appeared the following year and contained illustrations by George Hutchinson , and J. B. Lippincott Co. published the first American edition in 1890 . Numerous further editions , translations and dramatisations have appeared since . The story , and its main character , attracted little public interest when it first appeared . Only ten copies of Beeton 's Christmas Annual 1887 are known to exist now and they have considerable value . Although Doyle wrote fifty - six short stories featuring Holmes , A Study in Scarlet is one of only four full - length novels in the original canon . The novel was followed by The Sign of Four , published in 1890 . The novel is split into two quite separate halves . The first is titled Being a Reprint from the Reminiscences of John Watson , M.D. , Late of the Army Medical Department . This part is told in first person by Holmes ' friend Doctor John H. Watson and describes his introduction in 1881 to Sherlock Holmes through a mutual friend and the first mystery in which he followed Holmes ' investigations . The mystery revolves around a corpse found at a derelict house in Brixton , England with the word " RACHE " scrawled in blood on the wall beside the body . Holmes firmly resolves to solve the case despite the fact that he wo n't be given any credit of it . For this purpose , he makes up a plan using a wedding ring that had been lost at the crime scene . After placing an ad in the newspaper , asking for the ring owner , Holmes is visited by an old woman who claims the ring . Holmes follows " her " ( it turns out to be a man in disguise ) but the disguised man manages to escape . Minutes later , Holmes is visited by one of the police detectives assigned to the case , who claims that the case has been solved and the murderer is now jailed . After the detective finishes explaining how he solved the case , a second police detective ( Lestrade ) arrives to announce that there has been a second murder - it is clear that the man the police have arrested is innocent . The police are now completely at a loss - both detectives have arrived at dead ends . By way of reply , Holmes announces that he himself has solved the murder and will shortly arrest the killer . Pretending to be packing his bags for 