A Storm of Swords is the third of seven planned novels in A Song of Ice and Fire , an epic fantasy series by American author George R. R. Martin . It was first published on 8 August 2000 in the United Kingdom , with a United States edition following in November 2000 . Its publication was preceded by a novella called Path of the Dragon , which collects some of the Daenerys Targaryen chapters from the novel into a single book . To date , A Storm of Swords is the longest novel in the series . It was so long that in the UK its paperback edition was split in half , Part 1 being published as Steel and Snow in June 2001 ( with the one - volume cover ) and Part 2 as Blood and Gold in August 2001 ( with a specially - commissioned new cover ) . In France , the decision was made to cut the novel into four separate editions . A Storm of Swords won the 2001 Locus Award and 2002 Geffen Award for Best Novel and was nominated for the 2002 Nebula Award for Best Novel . Significantly , it was the first novel in the series to be nominated for the Hugo Award , one of the two most prestigious awards in science fiction and fantasy publishing , although it lost to JK Rowling 's novel Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire . Meisha Merlin , who had previously issued limited , illustrated editions of both A Game of Thrones and A Clash of Kings , were planning to release a similar version for A Storm of Swords in two volumes . However , lengthy delays on the release of A Clash of Kings caused Meisha Merlin to lose the printing rights for the book , which were picked up by Subterranean Press instead . This edition , fully illustrated by Charles Vess , was released in the summer of 2006 . A Storm of Swords is also the name of the second expansion to the board game " A Game of Thrones " , released in July 2006 . The novel has been placed as the number 1 rated book at the Internet Book List since a revision of the rating system in October 2005 . This list is derived from the votes of Internet Book List registered users . A Storm of Swords is set in a fictitious world reminiscent of Medieval Europe ( primarily on a continent called Westeros ) , except for the fact that in this world , seasons can last for years , sometimes decades . UK hardcover edition of A Storm of Swords . A Storm of Swords picks up the story where A Clash of Kings ended . The Seven Kingdoms are in the grip of the War of the Five Kings , with Robb Stark , Balon Greyjoy , Joffrey Baratheon , Stannis Baratheon and the late Renly Baratheon fighting to secure their crowns . Stannis Baratheon 's attempt to take King 's Landing has been defeated by the new alliance between House Lannister ( backing Joffrey ) and House Tyrell , and House Martell has also pledged its support to the Lannisters though the forces of Dorne have yet to take the field . Meanwhile , a large host of wildlings is marching on the Wall under Mance Rayder , with only the tiny force of the Night 's Watch in its path ; and in the distant east , Daenerys Targaryen is on her way back to 