The book , A Suspicion of Toads or The Curse of the Toads is set in England 1682 . The story follows the life of a young boy called Reuben who 's grandmother has been hanged for witchcraft . Sarah Mearback - An old , quiet woman interested in medicine and the healing powers of herbs and plants . Doctor Flyte ( Bartholomew Flyte ) - A man who claims to be a doctor . Travels with Baggs . Shadow - A dog that follows Reuben intently but for no apparent reason . In the book there are two timesets . One follows Reuben 's life before his Grandmother ( Sarah Mearback ) who was hanged for witchcraft , and the other follows his life afterwards . The story is told from a third - person narrative perspective . At the beginning of the book Reuben is walking down a road . A man called Doctor Flyte passes him by in his horse pulled cart and offers a ride . Reuben accepts the offer and they set off introducing themselves . On the cart is Doctor Flyte who says he is a medicine man and Baggs who is his assistant . They stop off at a town called Longford , where Reuben receives a cloak and is fed . It is now apparent that Doctor Flyte is keeping him under his hospitality . While sleeping in a barn for the night a dog appears . In the morning they set off and the dog follows the cart to their next destination . The book then jumps backwards in time . Sarah Mearback is hired by a woman called Annie Purseglove to deliver her daughter 's first baby . The baby is delivered successfully but it has a birthmark . The mother and various other characters are concerned , even though Sarah Mearback assures them nothing has gone wrong , and Meg Silver is convinced the mark looks like a toad , which used to be closely related to witchcraft and the devil . The women blame Sarah Mearback . The book resumes from where it left off in the present . They are travelling when Reuben learns that he cannot escape because he owes them for their hospitality . He also learns that to repay the debt he has to be an assistant to Doctor Flyte . The book jumps back again to where it left off in the past . Sarah Mearback is blamed for the death of an old man when a black cat jumps at him outside Sarah 's cottage . The old man has a heart attack , but Meg Silver is convinced that Sarah Mearback transformed Reuben into a cat , who then pounced on the old man . The book returns to the present , when they arrive at the next village , Clodbury . Reuben names the dog Shadow when he sees it has followed him . The point of this visit is Clodbury fair , where Doctor Flyte pulls off his scam for the first time in front of Reuben . Doctor Flyte sets up his school , advertising " Flyte 's Fantastic Formula " . He then impresses a crowd by " guessing " people 's illnesses or problems simply by touching them ( Reuben later discovers that Flyte was reading hand signals from Baggs as he had already socialised with them . Baggs then wears an eyepatch , pretending to have gut problems . Doctor Flyte gives him some of his medicine and he acts as if the pain has 