A Suitable Boy is a novel by Vikram Seth , released in 1994 . At 1349 pages ( 1488 pages softcover ) and 591,552 words , the book is one of the longest novels ever published in the English language. . A Suitable Boy is set in post - independent , post - partitioned India . The novel follows the story of four families over a period of 18 months as a mother searches for a suitable boy to marry her daughter . The novel begins with Mrs. Rupa Mehra declaring " You too will marry a boy I choose " to her daughter Lata at the occasion of the wedding of Mrs. Mehra 's elder daughter Savita in the city of Brahmpur , the capital of the fictitious state of Purva Pradesh . Rupa is determined to marry off her daughter whereas Lata decides that she does not want to have an arranged marriage . She falls in love with Kabir , a Muslim boy studying in her college . The incident causes Mrs. Mehra to take Lata to Calcutta to live with her eldest son Arun . There Lata befriends , and begins to ponder the possibility of a life with , Amit Chatterji , her sister - in - law 's brother , and a writer / poet . Meanwhile her mother will stop at nothing to ensure her daughter marries ( in an arranged marriage ) , Haresh , a self - made executive at a shoe company . The book ends with Lata 's wedding . This is by no means the only story in the vast book , in which we see various events of post - independence Indian history affecting the lives of the characters . The novel deals with social issues like Hindu - Muslim strife , land reforms and the Zamindari system , and state and national politics . The book is arranged into 19 parts , with each part focussing on a different story ( and eventally coming back round again ) . For example part 1 is about Lata 's story ; part 2 is about a courtesan ( the beginning of a major subplot featuring Maan Kapoor ) ; part 3 is about Lata again ; part 4 is about Haresh ; part 5 is about the Brahmpur political scene etc . Each part is described by a rhyming couplet on the contents page . The Mehras - Mrs. Rupa Mehra , a mother searching for a suitable boy for her daughter . Arun , Savita , Varun and Lata - Mrs. Mehra 's four children . Arun is married to Meenakshi Chatterji , Savita to Pran Kapoor . Lata - Mrs. Rupa Mehra 's youngest child . A large portion of the novel as well as the title describes her mother 's determination to marry Lata off to " a suitable boy. " . The Kapoors - Mr. Mahesh Kapoor , Mrs. Mahesh Kapoor and their 3 children Veena , Pran and Maan . The Khans - Nawab Sahib of Baitar and his 3 children Zainab , Imtiaz and Firoz . Four family trees are provided to help readers keep up with the complicated interwoven family networks . Agarwalla , Shyam S. ( 1995 ) . Vikram Seth 's A Suitable Boy : Search for an Indian Identity . 