A Swiftly Tilting Planet is a 1978 science fiction novel by Madeleine L'Engle , part of the Time Quartet . In A Swiftly Tilting Planet , Charles Wallace Murry , an advanced and perceptive child in A Wrinkle in Time and A Wind in the Door , has grown into an adolescent . His intelligence and remarkable goodness carry him through an adventure in time to save the world from nuclear disaster threatened by Mad Dog Branzillo , the dictator of the fictional South American country of Vespugia . In order to change the outcome of the present , Charles Wallace must change the past , in a series of " might - have - beens , " events which are turning points fought over by the powers of good and evil . The book opens on Thanksgiving evening , about 10 years after the events of A Wind in the Door . Meg is now married to Calvin and is expecting their first child . Calvin has become a scientist and is in Britain at a conference . The Murry family is joined for Thanksgiving dinner by an unusual guest — Meg’s very antisocial mother - in - law , Mrs. O'Keefe . When they receive the news of impending nuclear war caused by the dictator Mad Dog Branzillo , Mrs. O'Keefe lays a charge on Charles Wallace — to prevent the disaster . She teaches him " Patrick 's Rune " , a rhyming prayer of protection that has been passed down to her from her Irish grandmother . The verse given as Patrick 's Rune is in fact an adaptation of an authentic medieval prayer , " Saint Patrick 's Breastplate " , which in turn is a variation on the Lorica of Saint Patrick . Between myself and the powers of darkness ! " . Charles Wallace goes for a walk to the star - watching rock , a family haunt , and begins to recite Patrick 's Rune . His recitation summons a flying unicorn from the heavens , who introduces himself as Gaudior . The unicorn explains to Charles Wallace that he must prevent nuclear war by traveling through time and telepathically merging with people who lived in the locale of the star - watching rock at points in the past . By doing so he may change pivotal situations , " might - have - beens " , in which things might have turned out better than they did . Unsure how events in the distant past near his home can affect a South American dictator , Charles Wallace agrees . They are threatened along the way by the Echthroi , the antagonists introduced in A Wind in the Door . The Echthroi are evil beings whose goal is the total destruction of the universe . As Charles Wallace tries to make the might - have - beens turn out for good , the Echthroi are fighting to make them turn out for evil . Gaudior and Charles Wallace 's travels bring them to : Harcels , a Native American boy at least 1000 years in the past ; Madoc Gywnedd of Wales , a pre - Columbian trans - oceanic traveler ; Brandon Llawcae , a Welsh settler in puritan times ; Mrs. O'Keefe 's brother Chuck Maddox , during their childhood ; and Matthew Maddox , a writer during the American Civil War who wrote a novel about the legend of Madoc Gywnedd . Meg connects with Charles Wallace from home through " kything , " the telepathic communication she learned 