A Talent for War is a science fiction and mystery novel by Jack McDevitt , the story of a search by Alex Benedict , the protagonist , to discover the nature of a mysterious project Alex 's uncle had been working on at the time of his death . This investigation leads deep into the history of a war between human civilization and a neighboring alien civilization and challenges the foundation mythos of the current human government . The story is set in our universe approximately 9,600 years in the future ( approximately 11,600 C.E. ) . As is made clearer in McDevitt 's later Alex Benedict novel Seeker , during the course of recorded history , human civilization has spread through a substantial part of the Orion Arm of our galaxy . The novel is concerned with two time periods – the present of the principal viewpoint character , Alex Benedict , and a period approximately 200 years before his time , which is viewed through back - story . In the millennia since Neil Armstrong , McDevitt tells us , humanity discovered the ruins of one alien technological civilization , and encountered one that at the time of the story is alive and thriving , the Ashiyyur . The sphere of Ashiyyur worlds is described by the author as abutting the worlds of human civilization along the Perimeter – first contact was made at least several hundred years before the time in which the back - story is set . McDevitt conceives the Ashiyyur as being at approximately the same technological level as humans , and in fact humanoid – bi - laterally symmetrical , bipedal , larger than average for human , of two genders , descended from predators , and interested in the same kind of real estate as humans . Most significantly for the story , they are also incapable of audible speech without mechanical aids , and are nicknamed “Mutes” by humans as a result . The Ashiyyur are telepathic and have evolved a society based on that form of communication . They have the ability , with some difficulty , to “read” human minds and emotions . Ashiyyur civilization is described as being much older than human civilization ( approximately 75,000 years versus perhaps 15,000 ) but as having developed much more slowly . It is important to the back - story that to the Ashiyyur , human dynamism and exuberance appear threatening and humans are aggressive , untrustworthy and unethical . McDevitt describes human civilization at the time of the back - story as spread across many worlds , most of which were independent of the others . All maintained sentimental ties with Earth , but difficulties of interstellar travel and local parochialism ensured that there was no central government . Many human worlds maintained their own armed forces but again there was no central direction . Communication between worlds was limited to travel by interstellar ships , which used magnetic drives for short and medium distance travel within star systems and Armstrong interstellar drives by means of which ships could travel between star systems through “Armstrong space” . Both at the time of the back - story and in the protagonist 's time , navigation using Armstrong drives is sufficiently imprecise that ships must for safety reasons emerge from Armstrong space well away from stars and planets and travel substantial distances ( and times ) using magnetic drives . In addition , and partly as a result , travel through Armstrong space is time - consuming – as described in the 