A Tenured Professor ( 1990 ) is a satirical novel by Canadian / American economist and Professor Emeritus at Harvard , John Kenneth Galbraith , about a liberal university teacher who sets out to change American society by making money and then using it for the public good . Set at Harvard mainly during the Reagan administration , the plot and all the characters that appear in the story are entirely fictitious . The book chronicles the rise to fame of one Montgomery Marvin , a professor of economics who , as an academic teacher , keeps a low profile but who nevertheless is given tenure quite early in his career . While outwardly concerning himself with unspectacular research focusing on " Mathematical Paradigms in an Approach to Refrigerator Pricing " ( which is also the title of his Ph.D. thesis ) , Marvin 's extra - curricular activities centre on becoming very rich in a very short time . For that purpose , Marvin has devised a new formula - - a stock forecasting model by means of which he and his wife can cash in on people 's euphoria , greed and , as they call it , dementia . Eventually , while everyone loses money in the wake of the " Black Monday " stock market crash of October 19 , 1987 , the Marvins gain an awful lot . They decide to spend their money wisely , according to their liberal agenda . Intent on strictly observing the code of business ethics , they start to make use of the " positive power of wealth " and embark on a life of philanthropy . They fund a number of chairs in peace studies to be established at , of all places , military academies . They also secure legislation by which companies are required to label their products according to the percentage of female executives employed by them . After they have launched several of their projects , their operations are increasingly considered un - American and officially put under surveillance . But whatever will happen - Marvin knows that he will be able to nourish his family as he has been accorded tenure . A Tenured Professor was republished as paperback by Houghton Mifflin in 2001 ( ISBN 0 - 618 - 15455 - 8 ) . Another satire on human greed and on capitalism in general is Terry Southern 's 1959 novel The Magic Christian . Henry Adams 's novel Democracy ( 1880 ) also deals with political corruption and possible threats to American democracy . Under the nom de plume of Marshall Jevons , U.S. professors of economics William Breit and Kenneth G. Elzinga have written three mystery books , Murder at the Margin , The Fatal Equilibrium , and A Deadly Indifference . The protagonist of these novels is Henry Spearman , who relies on economic thinking to solve crimes . For a depiction of the world of academe , see also the list of books at School and university in literature . 