A Theory of Justice is a book of political and moral philosophy by John Rawls . It was originally published in 1971 and revised in both 1975 ( for the translated editions ) and 1999 . In A Theory of Justice , Rawls attempts to solve the problem of distributive justice by utilising a variant of the familiar device of the social contract . The resultant theory is known as " Justice as Fairness " , from which Rawls derives his two famous principles of justice : the liberty principle and the difference principle . Rawls ' primary objective in A Theory of Justice is to provide a solution to the problem of political obligation or , to put it in another way , to explain how it is and under what circumstances citizens are obligated to obey the laws that the state creates . He does this through the device of a hypothetical agreement , made under conditions of equality so that there are no disparities in bargaining power . This justifies the coercive use of state power because , guided by it , a state would take a form which all would , under conditions of freedom , consent to . Rawls called this theory Justice as Fairness . Like Hobbes , Locke , Rousseau and Kant , Rawls belongs to the social contract tradition . However , Rawls ' social contract takes a slightly different form from that of previous thinkers . Specifically , Rawls develops what he claims are principles of justice through the use of an entirely and deliberately artificial device he calls the Original position , in which everyone decides principles of justice from behind a veil of ignorance . This " veil " is one that essentially blinds people to all facts about themselves that might cloud what notion of justice is developed . I shall even assume that the parties do not know their conceptions of the good or their special psychological propensities . The principles of justice are chosen behind a veil of ignorance. " . According to Rawls , ignorance of these details about oneself will lead to principles which are fair to all . If an individual does not know how he will end up in his own conceived society , he is likely not going to privilege any one class of people , but rather develop a scheme of justice that treats all fairly . In particular , Rawls claims that those in the Original Position would all adopt a maximin strategy which would maximise the position of the least well - off . It is important to keep in mind that the agreement that stems from the original position is both hypothetical and nonhistorical . It is hypothetical in the sense that the principles to be derived are what the parties would , under certain legitimating conditions , agree to , not what they have agreed to . In other words , Rawls seeks to persuade us through argument that the principles of justice that he derives are in fact what we would agree upon if we were in the hypothetical situation of the original position and that those principles have moral weight as a result of that . It is nonhistorical in the sense that it is not supposed that the agreement has ever , or indeed could actually be entered into as a matter of fact . Rawls claims that the parties in the original position would adopt two such principles , which would then govern the assignment of rights and duties and regulate the 