A Time of Changes is a 1971 science fiction novel by Robert Silverberg . It won the Nebula Award for that year , and was also nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1972 . The novel is set in a culture where the first person singular is forbidden . This could be seen as similar to Ayn Rand 's earlier Anthem , except that in Rand 's book the idea of individuality is simply unknown , whereas Silverberg makes the of a world where I and me are treated as obscenities or social errors . A powerful new drug enables protagonist Kinnall Darival to attain telepathic contact with others , and this sharing brings him the courage to lead a revolution against his repressive culture . A backlash to the Sixties culture in which the book was written leads some critics to see it as merely a psychedelic drug fantasy . The novel is presented in the style of an autobiography , written by Kinnall while he awaits impending capture and imprisonment for his cultural crimes . Everyone 's lives in Velada Borthan is ruled by the Covenant , of which the most conspicuous trait is the denial of the self . Referring to oneself in the first person is forbidden . A selfbarer is someone who exposes his soul to others and as a result is ostracized . The protagonist of the story is Kinnall Darival , a prince of the province of Salla , tormented by existential doubts and by his forbidden passion for his bondsister , Halum . After his brother Stirron becomes Prime Septarch of Salla , Kinnall exiles himself to the neighboring province of Glin to avoid a direct clash with him . Following a more than cold reception in Glin , his monetary savings are sequestered by the Grand Treasurer of Salla , and he is declared an illegal alien , leaving him as a penniless fugitive . He finds a nice man who employs him for a year in a logging camp , however he is eventually recognized as the fugitive prince by a woman from Salla . On the road again , Kinnall takes shelter in Klaek , a miserable village in Glin , with a family of peasants . Longing for news from the " real world " , Kinnall goes to Biumar and is engaged as a seaman on a merchant boat headed to the province of Manneran . Once there , he recurred to his bondfather , Segvord , for a job which allows him a honest living in Manneran . While becoming a powerful bureaucrat in Manneran , Kinnall marries Halum 's look - alike and cousin Loimel . He then meets the earthman Schweiz with whom he begins to freely discuss his alienation from his own culture . Schweiz tells him about the wonderful drug available in the wild southern country of Sumara Borthan . Finally , both go to a country lodge and share the secret drug , causing their minds to become open to one another and creating a strong connection between them . Kinnall and Schweiz organize a small expedition to Sumara Borthan where they share the drug with the natives in a kind of social magic ritual . Smuggling a large amount of the drug into Manneran , Kinnall starts to be the apostle of a new selfbaring cult , convincing many people to share the telepathic drug with him . Among them is his bondbrother Noim . Finally , betrayed and revealed , he seeks escape to Noim 's 