A Traveler from Altruria is a Utopian novel by William Dean Howells first published in installments in The Cosmopolitan , Vol . XIV , No.1 ( November 1892 ) to Vol. XV , No.6 ( October 1893 ) , and eventually in book form in 1894 . Set in the early 1890s in a fashionable summer resort somewhere on the East Coast of the United States , the book is narrated by a Mr Twelvemough , a popular author of light fiction who has been selected to function as host to a visitor from the faraway island of Altruria called Mr Homos . Homos has come all the way to the United States to experience first - hand everyday life in the country which prides itself to be the spearhead of democracy and equality , to see for himself how the principle that " all men are created equal " is being put into practice . However , due to Altruria 's secluded existence very little is known about that state , so Twelvemough and his circle of acquaintances , all of whom are staying at the same hotel , are more eager to learn something about Altruria than to explain American life and institutions . To their dismay , it gradually becomes clear to everyone involved in the conversations with Mr Homos—who in the course of the novel becomes less and less reluctant to talk about his own country—that the United States is far lagging behind Altruria in practically every aspect of life , be it political , economical , cultural , or moral . Thus , in the novel the island state of Altruria serves as a foil to America , whose citizens , compared to Altrurians , appear selfish , obsessed with money , and emotionally imbalanced . Mainly , A Traveller from Altruria is a critique of unfettered capitalism and its consequences , and of the Gilded Age in particular . In A Traveler from Altruria , Howells acknowledges the history of Utopian literature by having his circle of educated characters refer to eminent representatives of that literary tradition such as Campanella ( La città del Sole , 1602 ) and Francis Bacon ( The New Atlantis , 1623 ) , but also to quite recent authors like Edward Bellamy ( Looking Backward , 1888 ) and William Morris ( News from Nowhere , 1890 ) . He is not an Altrurian at all. " . As opposed to egotism , altruism—a word coined in the first half of the 19th century by Auguste Comte—is unselfish concern for the welfare of others . Thus , Altruria is a Utopian country inhabited exclusively by altruists , by people who believe that they have a moral obligation to help , serve , or benefit others , if necessary at the sacrifice of self interest . Right from the first moment of his stay at the fashionable summer hotel it becomes evident that Mr Homos 's behaviour is fundamentally different from that of the other guests . This was probably not true ; but I myself saw him helping in the hotel hay - field one afternoon , shirt - sleeved like any of the hired men . He said that it was the best possible exercise , and that he was ashamed he could give no better excuse for it than the fact that without something of the kind he should suffer from indigestion . It was grotesque , and out of all keeping with a man of his cultivation and breeding . He was a gentleman and 