This article is about the 1943 novel . For the film , see A Tree Grows in Brooklyn , and for the musical adaptation , see A Tree Grows in Brooklyn . A Tree Grows In Brooklyn is a novel by Betty Smith first published in 1943 . It relates the coming - of - age story of its main character , Francie Nolan , and her Irish - American family struggling against poverty in Williamsburg , Brooklyn , New York . The novel is set in the first and second decades of the 20th century . The book was an immense success , a nationwide best - seller that was distributed to servicemen overseas . It was also adapted into a popular motion picture , the first feature film directed by Elia Kazan . Much of the book can be thought of as thinly disguised autobiography . Many of the characters derive from actual inhabitants of Williamsburg with whom the author grew up . The central metaphor of the book is the Tree of Heaven , which is a hardy species commonplace in the back lots of New York City . In pre - World War I Brooklyn , young Francie struggles to keep her idealism alive in the face of grinding poverty , the comedies and tragedies of ordinary life . Her mother , Katie , is a realistic woman who works as a janitor in their tenement to make ends meet . Her father , Johnny , is an alcoholic singing waiter who is more of a dreamer . Along with her brother Neeley , the four of them live in a poor apartment in Williamsburg , Brooklyn , New York City . The novel starts off with Francie and Neeley going to the pawn shop after scraping through garbage and such for foil , on a Saturday . They get pennies for this from the shop owner , and they split the earnings , with some of it going into the family star bank . Neeley spends his money on candy , and Francie has a nickel that she holds on to while she browses stores . All the kids in the neighborhood do the same thing as they do , and it 's a routine weekend thing for them . Johnny has a job that night to perform at a wedding , and comes home to freshen up . He is a proud union member , and always tells his family about the wonderful benefits of being a union member . Francie loves her father but has a strained relationship with her mother . The mother admits to loving Neeley more than Francie , but only to herself though . When Johnny is drunk , he 's quiet , which leads people to think he 's sober , and he 's happy and singing when he 's sober , which makes people think he 's drunk . Since it 's Saturday , Francie is allow to sleep in the front room , which is one of her favorite things about Saturdays ( besides from going to the library , and her cup of coffee to do as she pleases with it ) . She stays awake to wait for her father to come home from his job . As the Nolans scrape by on pennies , the novel focuses on Francie 's struggle for a better life despite all the pressures . We come to know these people well through big and little troubles : Aunt Sissy 's scandalous succession of " husbands ; " 