Mary Wollstonecraft 's A Vindication of the Rights of Woman ( 1792 ) is one of the earliest works of feminist literature or philosophy . In it , Wollstonecraft responds to the educational and political theorists of the eighteenth century who wanted to deny women an education . She argues that women ought to have an education commensurate with their position in society and then proceeds to redefine that position , claiming that women are essential to the nation because they educate its children and because they could be " companions " to their husbands , rather than mere wives . Instead of viewing women as ornaments to society or property to be traded in marriage , Wollstonecraft maintains that they are human beings deserving of the same fundamental rights as men . Wollstonecraft was prompted to write the Rights of Woman by Charles - Maurice de Talleyrand - Périgord 's 1791 report to the French National Assembly which stated that women should only receive a domestic education ; she used her commentary on this specific event to launch a broad attack against sexual double standards and to indict men for encouraging women to indulge in excessive emotion . Wollstonecraft wrote the Rights of Woman hurriedly in order to respond directly to ongoing events ; she intended to write a more thoughtful second volume , but she died before she was able to complete it . While Wollstonecraft does call for equality between the sexes in particular areas of life , such as morality , she does not explicitly state that men and women are completely equal . Her ambiguous statements regarding the equality of the sexes have since made it difficult to classify Wollstonecraft as a modern feminist , particularly since the word and the concept were unavailable to her . Although it is commonly assumed now that the Rights of Woman was unfavorably received , this is a modern misconception based on the belief that Wollstonecraft was as reviled during her lifetime as she became after the publication of William Godwin 's Memoirs of the Author of A Vindication of the Rights of Woman ( 1798 ) . The Rights of Woman was actually well - received when it was first published in 1792 . A Vindication of the Rights of Woman was written against the tumultuous background of the French Revolution and the debates that it spawned in Britain . In a lively and sometimes vicious pamphlet war , now referred to as the " Revolution Controversy , " British political commentators addressed topics ranging from representative government to human rights to the separation of church and state . Wollstonecraft first entered this fray in 1790 with A Vindication of the Rights of Men , a response to Edmund Burke 's Reflections on the Revolution in France ( 1790 ) . In his Reflections , Burke criticizes the view of many British thinkers and writers who had welcomed the early stages of the French Revolution . While they saw the revolution as analogous to Britain 's own Glorious Revolution in 1688 , which had restricted the powers of the monarchy , Burke argued that the appropriate historical analogy was the English civil war ( 1642 - 1651 ) in which Charles I had been executed in 1649 , because he viewed the French Revolution as the violent overthrow of a legitimate government . In Reflections he argues that citizens do not have the right to overthrow their government ; because civilization , including governments , is the result of social and political consensus , its traditions cannot 