A Void or in French La Disparition ( literally , " The Disappearance " ) is a 300 page French lipogrammatic novel , written in 1969 by Georges Perec , entirely without the letter e , following Oulipo constraints . Its translation into English by Gilbert Adair is entitled A Void . It was translated into English by Gilbert Adair , with the title A Void , for which he won the Scott Moncrieff Prize in 1995 . Another English translation by Ian Monk is titled A Vanishing . The book has also been translated into German ( by Eugen Helmlé as Anton Voyls Fortgang , 1986 ) , Spanish ( El secuestro , 1997 ) , Turkish ( by Cemal Yardımcı as Kayboluş ) , Swedish ( by Sture Pyk as Försvinna , 2000 ) and Russian ( by Valeriy Kislow as Исчезание , 2005 ) . All translators have imposed upon themselves a similar lipogrammatic constraint to the original , avoiding the most commonly used letter of the alphabet . This precludes the use of words normally considered essential such as je ( " I " ) and le ( masculine " the " ) in French , and " me " and " the " in English . The Spanish version contains no a , which is the most commonly used letter in that language . Plot warning : Story and / or conclusion information follows . A Void 's plot follows a group of individuals hunting a missing companion , Anton Vowl . It is in part a parody of noir and horror fiction , with many stylistic tricks and gags , plot convolutions , and a grim conclusion . In many parts it implicitly talks about its own lipogrammatic limitation : illustrations of this including a missing part 5 ( of 26 ) , and calling its main protagonist " Vowl " . Individuals within A Void do work out what is missing , but find difficulty discussing or naming it as it has no word or form that conforms to its author 's constraint . Philip Howard , writing a lipogrammatic appraisal of A Void in a British daily journal , said , " This is a story chock - full of plots and sub - plots , of loops within loops , of trails in pursuit of trails , all of which allow its author an opportunity to display his customary virtuosity as an avant - gardist magician , acrobat and clown. " . Introduction : which contains an account of civilization in a malign anarchy ; trust nobody , and watch your back . 1. Anton Vowl , protagonist of A Void , is having a chronic bout of insomnia . An otolaryngologist 's incision in his nasal cavity works on an inflammation of his sinus to diminish his pain . His insomnia is still bad , though . 2. For six days our protagonist is badly ill . Vowl 's various insomniac hallucinations : his robust constitution allows him to roam an unknown island amid its monsoons , visiting its buildings . A yacht brings visitors , including Faustina . A ring is a sign indicating Faustina is his , but Vowl cannot touch things in this imaginary world , and , waking , cannot work out what this vision is for . 3. Vowl starts a diary , titling it " A Void " , to aid his working out of his vision . In his diary , a boy , Aignan , outwits a sphinx , making him practically 