A Voyage to Arcturus is a novel by the Scottish writer David Lindsay . First published in 1920 , it combines fantasy , philosophy and science fiction in an exploration of the nature of good and evil and their relationship with existence . It has been described by the critic and philosopher Colin Wilson as the " greatest novel of the twentieth century " and was a central influence on C.S. Lewis 's Space Trilogy . The novel has very little , if anything at all , of science fiction . An interstellar voyage is depicted solely to provide a mostly superficial and perfunctory framework to the narration . The book was written at a time when it was no longer possible to conceive strange lands in the antipodes ( as in Jonathan Swift 's Gulliver 's Travels , or in Thomas More 's Utopia ) , and so these have to be set at Tormance , an imaginary planet orbiting Arcturus , which , in the novel ( but not in reality ) , is a double star consisting of stars Branchspell and Alppain . Maskull is depicted as a man longing for adventures , who accepts an invitation from Krag , an acquaintance of his friend Nightspore , to travel to Tormance . The three set off from an abandoned observatory in Scotland but Maskull finds himself alone in Tormance . In every land he passes through he usually meets only one or two persons ; these meetings often ( though not always ) end in the death of those he meets . He learns of his impending death , meets Krag again , and dies shortly after learning that he is Nightspore himself . The book concludes with a final revelation from Krag ( who claims to be known on Earth as «pain» ) to Nightspore about the origin of the Universe . All characters and lands are types used to convey the author 's critique of several philosophical systems . Chapter 1 - The Seance A séance is organised to which someone invites two recent acquaintances , Maskull and Nightspore . Their late arrival is marked by a «supernatural» noise . The medium causes a smiling man to materialise . Krag arrives uninvited , kills the apparition , and calls Maskull and Nightspore ( with whom he was acquainted ) to the street . Chapter 2 - In the Street Krag invites Maskull and Nightspore to come to Tormance , a planet orbiting Arcturus , whence the apparition comes . Maskull disbelieves the proposal as a joke but accepts it when Krag shows him with a small but heavy and potent pocket telescope that Arcturus consists of two suns . Upon a question from Nightspore , Krag says that Surtur ( unknown to Maskull ) went ahead and they must go to follow him . Chapter 3 - Starkness Maskull and Nightspore arrive on foot ( after travelling by train ) on the Scottish observatory of Starkness , where Krag was to meet them . The observatory is abandoned . Two bottles are found with «Solar back rays» and «Arcturian back rays» . The first , unfastened , flies back to the sun because of the light rays trapped within . Chapter 4 - The Voice Nightspore leads Maskull to a spot in the shore some miles off where a sort of a drumbeating is heard , and tells him that if he hears it again he is to ' try always to hear it more and more distinctly ' . Maskull attempts to climb the 