A Wind in the Door ( 1973 , ISBN 0 - 374 - 38443 - 6 ) is a young adult science fantasy novel by Madeleine L'Engle . It is a sequel to A Wrinkle in Time , and part of the Time Quartet . Meg Murry is worried about her brother Charles Wallace , a 6 - year - old genius and telepath who is shunned and bullied by the other children . The new principal of the elementary school is the former high school principal , Mr. Jenkins , who often disciplined Meg , and who Meg is sure has a grudge against her whole family . Meg tries to enlist Jenkins ' help in protecting her brother , but is unsuccessful . On top of this , Meg discovers that Charles Wallace has a progressive disease which is leaving him short of breath . Their mother , a microbiologist , suspects it may have something to do with his mitochondria and the ( fictional ) " farandolae " which live within them . One afternoon , Charles Wallace tells Meg he saw a " drive of dragons " in the field near the house . Meg goes out with him to investigate , but all they find is a pile of very odd feathers . Later , Meg has a frightening encounter with something that looks like Mr. Jenkins . Meg , Charles Wallace and Calvin O'Keefe discover that Charles Wallace 's drive of dragons is a single creature named Proginoskes . Progo , as he is quickly nicknamed , insists on being called " a cherubim " instead of a cherub because he is " nearly plural , " having a multitude of wings and eyes . The children also encounter a tall robed being named Blajeny , who informs them that he is a Teacher , and that they and Proginoskes have all been called to his class . Meg learns that the galaxy is threatened by beings called Echthroi , which seek to erase the entire universe by un - Naming things . She soon has to save Mr. Jenkins from this fate , by Naming him . Part of the task is to distinguish the real Mr. Jenkins from two Echthroi doubles , but it also means that she must look past her personal grudge , find the goodness in Mr. Jenkins , and let herself love him . The characters then learn that Echthroi are destroying Charles Wallace 's farandolae . They travel inside one of his mitochondria , which is named Yadah , and turn the tide by convincing a larval farandola to take root and accept its role as a mature fara , against the urgings of an Echthros . In the process , Meg is nearly " Xed , " and Mr. Jenkins is invaded by his Echthros doubles . Proginoskes sacrifices himself to " fill in " the emptiness of the Echthroi , and Charles Wallace 's life is saved . Meg Murry is a self conscious high school student , a defensive misfit who gets along best with her family and her new friend Calvin . She wears glasses , has dental braces and " mouse - brown " hair , and initially considers herself " repulsive - looking " and " dumb " , although she is quite good at math . By the time of A Wind in the Door , Meg is much happier in school than previously , in part because of her friendship with Calvin , but is deeply worried about Charles 