A Wizard of Earthsea , first published in 1968 , is the first of a series of books written by Ursula K. Le Guin and set in her fantasy archipelago of Earthsea . The tale of the eponymous wizard continues in The Tombs of Atuan , The Farthest Shore , Tehanu and The Other Wind . Le Guin has also written a number of other novels and short stories set in the world of Earthsea . An original mini - series based on A Wizard of Earthsea and The Tombs of Atuan was broadcast on the Sci Fi Channel . Le Guin has stated that she was not pleased with the result . Duny is a young boy from Gont , one of the larger islands that dot Earthsea . His mother being dead , his father a dour , taciturn bronze - smith , and his much older siblings having already left home , he grows up alone , headstrong and wild . The boy discovers he has a strong innate affinity for magic . His aunt , the village witch , teaches him the little she herself knows , but his power far exceeds hers . One day , he uses his natural talent and a spell his aunt had taught him to save his village from a raiding party of barbaric Kargs bent on looting and killing . The tale of his remarkable feat spreads far and wide , finally reaching the ear of a wise Gontish mage , Ogion the Silent . He recognizes that the boy is so powerful he must be trained so as not to become a danger to himself and others . In the rite of passage that leads to adulthood , he gives the boy his " true name " , Ged , and takes him as an apprentice . 1971 Puffin edition . The undisciplined young man grows restless under the gentle , patient tutelage of his master . Ogion finally gives him a choice : stay with him or go to the renowned school for wizards , on the island of Roke . Though he has grown to love the old man , the youngster is drawn irresistibly to a life of doing , rather than being . At the school , Sparrowhawk masters his craft with amazing ease , but his pride and arrogance grow even faster than his skill and , in his hubris , he attempts to conjure a dead spirit - a dangerous spell that goes awry . He inadvertently summons a spirit of darkness that attacks and scars him . The being is driven off by the Archmage , the head of the school , but in doing so , he exhausts all his power and dies soon afterwards . Sparrowhawk is racked with guilt at causing the old man 's death , but after a painful and slow recovery , he graduates . Normally , Roke 's wizards are sought after by princes and rich merchants , but the new Archmage sends Sparrowhawk , with his willing acquiescence , to a poor island group , to protect the inhabitants from a powerful dragon . After waiting fearfully for the spirit he released to return and try to possess him , he realizes he cannot both protect himself from the spirit and his charges from the dragon at the same time . He takes a desperate risk ; in the old histories , he has found the true name of a dragon that might be the one he must confront . His gamble succeeds 