A Widow for One Year is a 1998 bestselling novel by John Irving . The first section of the novel was later made into the movie The Door in the Floor in 2004 . In the opening section of the book , the year is 1958 and Ruth Cole is four years old . Although she is a loved child , her parents do not have a happy marriage . Her two older brothers had died four years ago in a car accident , and she is constantly reminded of their presence from the pictures of their childhood hanging on the walls of the Cole family home . Ruth 's father , Ted Cole , writes successful children 's books , and hires Eddie O'Hare , a teenager who attends Phillips Exeter Academy , the same school as Ruth 's two late brothers , to work as his assistant for the summer . Eddie is unwittingly drawn into a plot orchestrated by Ted to drive his unhappy wife , Marion , to infidelity . Marion , unable to forget her dead sons , shows little affection to her daughter . Ted has always conducted extra - marital affairs and would likely lose in a custody battle for Ruth in divorce court . If Marion had an affair , he feels that this would strengthen the case for custody to be awarded to him . Ted picks Eddie specifically to tempt Marion , since he bears a striking resemblance to his two dead sons . Eddie and Marion 's affair leads to Marion 's disappearance at the end of the summer . It is 1990 and Ruth is 36 . She is in Europe , dealing with the failures of her love life as she herself becomes a successful writer . Ruth is doing research on prostitutes in Amsterdam 's red light district , and finds herself hiding in a closet while she observes the murder of a prostitute by the prostitute 's client . She makes note of certain details of the murder which , in the future , lead to the murderer 's arrest . Having solved the murder case , the detective is left with the identity of the mysterious " witness " unknown . Ruth is now 41 , has a son , and is about to fall in love for the first time . This section covers Ruth 's brief widowhood ( " A Widow for One Year " is a literal description of Ruth 's situation as well as the title of one of her novels ) . The detective , who solved the murder case that Ruth witnessed four years before , is now able to discover the witness ' true identity . Because Ruth included details of the murder in her novel , and because the detective happened to be a fan of Ruth Cole 's work , he was able to identify his witness . Ruth discovers that the murder was solved and the murderer caught . In the course of her meeting with the detective , he and Ruth fall in love , and after a whirlwind romance in Paris ( the next stop on Ruth 's book tour ) he agrees to follow Ruth to Vermont where they marry . In a theme common to many Irving novels , Eddie is the son of a teacher at Phillips Exeter Academy . He grows up on the campus , and subsequently attends secondary school there . Ruth is a fan of Graham Greene ( she even names her son " Graham 