A World Out of Time is a science fiction novel by Larry Niven and published in 1976 . It is set outside the Known Space universe of many of Niven 's stories , but is otherwise fairly representative of his ' 70s hard sci - fi novels . It was originally serialised in Galaxy magazine . Part of this novel was originally published as the short story Rammer . Jerome Branch Corbell dies in 1970 from cancer and is cryogenically frozen in the faint hope of a future cure . His body is revived in 2190 by an oppressive , totalitarian global government called ' The State ' . His personality and memories are extracted ( destroying his body in the process ) and transferred into a mindwiped criminal . After he is awakened , he is continually evaluated by Peerssa , a " checker " , who has to decide whether he is worth keeping . With the threat of mindwiping looming over his head , Corbell works hard to pass the various tests . Peerssa decides that Corbell is a loner and born tourist . This makes him an ideal candidate to be the pilot and sole passenger of a Bussard ramjet , whose mission is to find and seed suitable planets as the first step to terraforming them . Disgusted with the State 's treatment of him as an expendable commodity , Corbell hijacks the ship and takes it to the center of the galaxy . It was at this point that the original short story ended . Peerssa tries to " talk him out of it " , but this is actually only a subterfuge ; an artificial intelligence program based on his personality is secretly transferred into the ship 's computer by way of the conversations . Though the Peerssa AI opposes the detour , it cannot disobey Corbell 's direct orders . After a lengthy journey , possible only due to the suspended animation devices on board , Corbell returns to the solar system . Although only hundreds of years have passed on the ship , three million years have elapsed on Earth , due to relativistic time dilation . At first , he is confused and initially believes they might have come to the wrong system because it has changed considerably ; the Sun has evolved into a red giant and Earth is now in orbit around Jupiter . Corbell and Peerssa eventually conclude that the solar system has been engineered into this new configuration in order to move the Earth to a habitable distance from the enlarged Sun . Corbell puts the ship into orbit around the Earth . When Corbell lands ( in a modified biological probe ) , he is captured by Mirelly - Lyra , like him a refugee from the past . She explains that the human species has fragmented ; it is dominated by a race of immortal , permanently pre - adolescent males ( the Boys ) , who are created by advanced medical techniques . Some time in the past , they had defeated the equally immortal ( though now extinct ) Girls , in the ultimate war of the sexes . The Boys have enslaved the dikta , who are unmodified humans ( though they have evolved somewhat ) , from whom they take boys to replenish their ranks . A starship crewwoman , Mirelly - Lyra had initially been a captive toy of the Girls . After their downfall , she had spent her time obsessively searching in vain for the lost adult 