A Woman of Substance is a novel by Barbara Taylor Bradford , and was published in 1979 . This novel is the first of a saga about the fortunes of a retail empire and the machinations of the business elite across three generations.It is structured in four parts . The first part starts with an octogenarian Emma , rich and powerful beyond her dreams . She is now enjoying and contemplating the empire she has created with her own hands . She is also training her favourite grandchild , Paula McGill Amory , to be her successor in the head of Harte Enterprises . The second part presents the main character , Emma Harte , born April 30th 1889 , who lived in the Yorkshire rural area . Her parents were Jack Harte and his wife Elizabeth , who died at the very beginning of this part , allegedly of tuberculosis . Emma was then left to take care of her father , along with her siblings , Winston who was older than her , and young Frank . By then , she was also working as a maid at the Fairley Hall , the manor house where Adam Fairley , his wife Adele and their children Gerald and Edwin lived . Olivia Wainright , Adele 's widowed sister who would later be Adam 's second wife , used to spend some time with them . The wicked butler Murgatroyd , the housekeeper , and another maid also worked and lived there . One day in her way to work , she met who would be her best friend for more than half a decade , an Irishman named Shane Patrick Desmond O'Neill , also known as Blackie . O'Neill was a building worker hired by the " Squire " ( Mr Fairley ) to do some repairs in Fairley Hall.After Adele Fairley dies in an unclear situation , it seems her death was caused by her alcoholism and her psychological problems , Emma and Edwin become good friends . They eventually end up making love in a cave up in the moors and she gets pregnant . He despises her since he 's afraid of being disinherited , disowned by his father and his whole family.Then , she goes to Leeds to have her baby . Before she leaves , she makes up a character for her : the wife of a Royal Navy officer , young , humble , but brilliant . Mind that in 1905 it was still a taboo having children out of wedlock.There she meets the Kallinskis , a jewish family working in the textile industry . Emma meets Abraham Kallinski in an anti - semitic incident . As she defends him , he takes her home and introduces her to his family . David , Abraham 's eldest son , falls for Emma almost immediately . In return to the favour Emma did to Abraham , they give her a job and treat her as family while she 's away from home . Shortly after she leaves for Leeds her father dies of burn injuries caused while trying to save Edwin to die in a fire in the Fairleys ' factory.Some time later , Blackie reunites with Emma in Leeds and is he who , in the late stages of her pregnancy takes her to the house of a beautiful , kind and loving woman named Laura . In 1983 , the book was adapted as a television miniseries starring Malaysian - born British actress Jenny Seagrove as Emma Harte . The debut UK 