A Woman in Amber : Healing the Trauma of War and Exile is a part autobiographical , part fictional novel written by Agate Nesaule . The first half of the novel describes Nesaule’s experiences of exile from Latvia imposed by the invading Russian army , and her family’s emigration to the United States in 1950 . The second half of the novel describes Nesaule’s experiences in the United States . Through Nesaule’s novel , the reader becomes acquainted with the Latvian community in Indianapolis during the 1950s . The novel also explores the experience of immigration as seen from Nesaule’s point of view : that of a teenage girl in the 1950s . By the novel 's end , Nesaule is able to heal from the harmful wartime experiences that fractured her life at such a young age . A Woman in Amber begins with Agate Nesaule as an adult . She is a successful professor of Women’s Studies and twentieth century American Literature at the University of Wisconsin Whitewater . Despite her outward professional success , Agate lives with an inner turmoil caused by her memories of war and perpetuated by her husband Joe . Nesaule finds herself in therapy , depressed and unable to come to terms with the root cause of her depression . On the advice of her therapist Ingeborg , Agate learns she can not begin to heal until she is able to tell her story ; the story of what happened to her and her family during World War II in Latvia at the hands of the invading Russian soldiers . So she begins her story by admitting that she was in Latvia during the war and that she was starving . From this first admittance , Agate begins to tell many stories related to her hunger . She tells how she was prompted by her mother to beg the Russian soldiers , in Russian , not Latvian , for food . Later in life , she mistakenly tells this same story to her husband Joe . He mocks her time and again for the way in which she was forced to beg for food ; suggesting she enjoyed it . Agate remembers how the Russians looked at her as if she were a goose singing . Agate relates the shame of going hungry and living with the belief she was not worth feeding . As the war progresses , things do not get much better for Agate and her family . When the Mongolian Russian soldiers arrive , her father is forced to leave with the rest of the men . The women and young girls are taken to a basement where the women are repeatedly raped . Agate is young enough to escape this , but careful provisions must be made for her older sister Beate . Agate’s mother Valada is understandably destroyed by the Russian occupation and the horrors that occur in the basement . When they are finally let out of the basement , the soldiers lead the women and girls into the woods . Everyone believes they are to be executed . Valada makes preparations to drag Agate with her to the front of the lines . Valada reasons if she and Agate are first , they will not need to see the others die . Agate does not wish to die , what ensues is a physical tug of war with her mother for her life . The struggle Agate has with her mother that day remains a constant tension between the two . Agate is unable to 