For the movie adaptation , see A Wrinkle in Time ( film ) . A Wrinkle in Time is a children 's fantasy novel by Madeleine L'Engle , written from 1959 to 1960 and published in 1962 after over forty rejections by publishers because it was , in L'Engle 's words , " too different. " . The book went on to win a Newbery Medal , Sequoyah Book Award , and Lewis Carroll Shelf Award , and was runner - up for the Hans Christian Andersen Award . It is the first in L'Engle 's series of books about the Murry and O'Keefe families . The main character is fourteen - year - old Meg Murry , who is regarded by her peers and teachers as a bad - tempered underachiever . Her family recognizes her problem as a lack of emotional maturity but also regards her as being capable of great things . The family includes her beautiful scientist mother , her mysteriously missing scientist father , her five - year - old brother Charles Wallace Murry —a nascent super - genius— and ten - year - old twin athlete brothers Sandy and Dennys Murry . The book begins with the line , " It was a dark and stormy night , " an allusion to the opening words in Edward George Bulwer - Lytton 's 1830 novel Paul Clifford ( though probably more familiar to juvenile readers through Snoopy 's writings in the comic strip Peanuts ) . The Murrys are visited by an eccentric old woman named Mrs Whatsit , who has previously made the acquaintance of Charles Wallace . After drying her feet and having a midnight snack with Charles , Meg and their mother , Mrs Whatsit tells an already perplexed Dr. Murry that " there is such a thing as a tesseract. " . Shortly thereafter , Meg and Charles encounter Meg 's upperclassman schoolmate Calvin O'Keefe , who , although he is a stereotypical " big man on campus " , turns out to be keen to join the children for further encounters with Mrs Whatsit and her equally eccentric friends Mrs Who and Mrs Which . Whatsit , Who , and Which turn out to be transcendental beings who transport Meg , Charles Wallace , and Calvin through the galaxy by means of tesseracts , which are explained as being similar to " folding " the fabric of space and time . The " Mrs W 's " reveal to the children that the galaxy is being conquered by a dark cloud , which is the visible manifestation of evil . Meg 's missing father was working on a secret government project to achieve faster - than - light travel through a tesseract , and accidentally wound up on Camazotz , an alien planet inside the cloud of evil . The children also discover that Earth is partially covered by the darkness , although great religious figures , philosophers , and artists are fighting against it . They also learn that Mrs Whatsit was a star who exploded in an act of self - sacrifice to fight the darkness . The children travel to Camazotz and rescue Meg 's father , who is being imprisoned by an evil disembodied brain with powerful telepathic powers , which the inhabitants of Camazotz call " IT " . However , Charles Wallace is mentally dominated by IT , and is left behind when the others flee , tessering through the Black Thing to a planet inhabited by sightless but wise beasts . When she 