Abarat is a 2002 young adult 's fiction book both written and illustrated by Clive Barker . Abarat is the setting where the book is based . There are four planned sequels to Abarat , the first of which was published in 2004 : Days of Magic , Nights of War . Absolute Midnight , The Eternal , and a yet - unnamed fifth book are yet to be released . Also , in March 2006 , Clive Barker announced on his site that there would be five books in the Abarat series , making it a quintet , which is rarely seen in fantasy series . Walt Disney Company has also purchased amusement ride rights to the series . As of September 2006 , however , Disney will no longer take part in the production of the Abarat movies . Barker was quoted in an interview by Phil and Sarah Stokes on September 4 as having said , " We are no longer making Abarat with Disney , that is now official , the work is back in my hands and my ownership , I owe them nothing. " . The title image contains an ambigram . 2.4 3:00 p.m . 2.13 12:00 a.m . The book Abarat centered on the strange world of the Abarat , the location of twenty - five islands , called Hours , on each of which it is always the same time . For example , on the island of Pyon , it is always 3:00 in the morning . The only exception is the mysterious 25th Hour . The arrival of Candy Quackenbush from Chickentown , Minnesota sparks remarkable events around the Abarat as Candy journeys about the islands , which are detailed below . The island of Yzil is a lush and temperate forest . The Princess Breath makes her home on the island ; it is here where she is said to breathe out powerful magic breezes that flow to other islands and create new life and vegetation . Hobarookus is a small rocky and swampy island that happens to be swarming with pirates and buccaneers . The food there is astounding . Kalukwa birds , a curious species of bird which hatches downy human babies every ninth year , are common throughout the swampy areas , called sinks . These babies are commonly taken and raised by the pirates . Orlando 's Cap is a small , ill favored island at 2:00 pm . It is here that an insane asylum is located , because many believe that the 2:00 hour promotes healing in the soul . The Nonce is a beautiful , drowsy island . Most people who visit fall asleep quickly , and do not have ordinary dreams . They dream of creation , specifically , The Creation , the beginning of the world . It is here that the Johns are taken to dig and look for Finnegan Hob . This island is riddled with the ruins of temples and Oracles . On many parts of the island , the air is filled with thousands of whispering voices , all sounding at once . There are many roads on the island that lead to nowhere , thus leading to the theory that Gnomon was once part of Soma Plume . Soma Plume is a large island , twice the size of Gnomon . It houses the Great Noahic Ziggurat , a place that has been used for burial since when time began . This is an island of fun and pleasure . It is really one 