Abant Izzet Baysal University is a university in Turkey . Abant Izzet Baysal University was founded on July 3 , 1992 with the aim of establishing a centre of excellence in higher education and research . Today it has 8 faculties , 3 institutes , 5 two - year programmes , 6 vocational schools , and 4 research centres . Nine hundred academicians are proud to educate 18,200 students in this modern environment . Academic Units of Abant Izzet Baysal University are spread out to a large area , which includes the districts of Bolu province , like Gerede , Mengen , Mudurnu and the neighbouring province Düzce and its district Akçakoca . The main Izzet Baysal Campus of the University is the central one and is only 8 kms to the city centre . The University accepts , without reservation , that creating an academic ground for social , cultural , scientific , economic , and technological development in an international context is essential for its mission . For this reason , Abant Izzet Baysal University aims to be a dynamic institution , focused at excellence , that will bring the development of our society and mankind to the highest universal standards . So far , the University has covered a long distance and become “the most rapidly progressing University in Turkey ”. Excellent educational infrastructure , including a modern library and extensive computer facilities with internet connection , creates a unique research environment . Abant Izzet Baysal University is a unique university model in Turkey not for being a purely state university nor a foundation university but instead “a foundation supported state university” . This status enables the university to receive funds both from the government and the Izzet Baysal Foundation . The university with its perfect physical structure and high - technology equipment , obtained in a short period of time with the investments of Izzet Baysal Foundation as well as opportunities provided by the State , offers a modern and developed environment for its students . Izzet Baysal Foundation provides the successful students scholarship opportunities . Physical Education and Sports Higher School . This centre has been founded to improve the language levels of students and personnel , to teach foreign languages and to make researches . The compulsory , optional , professional lectures are handled by Language Teaching and Research Centre . This centre has the responsibility of whole studies of education except academic studies . It takes place with its courses to university academic personnel , students and community . This is a centre that studies on herb taxonomy , vegetation connected to the rectorate . It also works in and abroad , everywhere duty is needed . This hospital , including 255 beds , was built and donated by Izzet Baysal Foundation and came into operation in 2003 . It serves with 200 beds in Konuralp , Düzce . The construction of the new building is still continuing . Abant Izzet Baysal University campuses offer extensive social and cultural facilities . Activities such as symposium , panel , conference , concert , theatre , and film shows have been done in the multi - purpose Culture Centre which is located on Izzet Baysal Campus , and in Blue Hall ( holding 514 people ) and in Pink Hall ( holding 208 people ) . A simultaneous system , holding 140 people , is set up in Blue Hall where three different languages can be translated simultaneously . The Exhibition Hall continuously holds art activities . Also , cultural and scientific activities have been 