Abbottabad Public School , also commonly referred to as APS and Railway Public School , is a private , all boys , boarding school for , 7th to 12th grade students , located in Abbottabad , Pakistan . APS is one of the best secondary and higher education schools in the region , both in academics as well as in extra curricular activities . APS follows the philosophy of the British boarding schools where academic rigour is balanced with a disciplined boarding life with activities ranging from intramural sports to debating and cultural events . In 1959 , Pakistan Railways opened up a school outside Abbottabad on land donated by Sardar Bahadur Khan , brother of Field Marshal Ayub Khan who was then the President of Pakistan . This school was called Railway Public School . After two years , in April 1961 , this school was renamed Abbottabad Public School and was no more associated with Pakistan Railways . In 1986 , Muhammad Zia - ul - Haq , the then President , re - named this institution as Abbottabad Public School & College . Later on , the school Board of Governors , in its meeting on July 20 , 2002 , decided to delete the words “and College” and give the institution its original name Abbottabad Public School . It is still more popularly known as APS and its alumni as Abbottonians . The main campus is about 10 km outside Abbottabad on the road that eventually becomes Karakoram Highway . It covers an area of about 55 acres . The school is surrounded by deep natural crevices in almost a U - shape . The only non - crevice side faces a high mountain . Karakoram Highway passes between school and the mountain . Abbottabad Public School is a renowned academic institution in the area . It has attracted many students from all over Pakistan as well as other countries . Historically , APS students have performed excellently in both the tenth grade and twelfth grade Board examinations . APS has seven main boarding houses in which all boarders reside . Usually , up to a hundred students can live in each of these houses , in different room capacity dormitories . Each of these houses has a House Master , a House Tutor and several student Prefects . The only day - scholar house is Rehman House , named after Mr M. A. Rehman , the first principal of APS . A beautiful mosque , two main dinning halls and a shopping complex including cafeteria , grocery store , general store , book store , barber shop , cobbler , washerman pit , and fruit shop are also part of the boarding facilities . All the Houses have their own recreation rooms , called “common - rooms” , where residents play indoor games during their free time and on holidays even . Every common room is facilitated with Television , DVD , Table Tennis , Carom , Chess , draughts and scrabble . There is one football field , two hockey fields , one cricket field ( combination of two hockey fields ) , five basket ball courts , one tennis court , one volley ball court and an outdoor swimming pool . I pledge my word of honour that , I shall do my duty to God , to my country , and to my fellow human beings and shall obey all rules and regulations of this Institution . I shall honour my parents , teachers and elders and be good to those who 