Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University ( ATBU ) , is a federal university located in Bauchi , northern Nigeria . The university is named after the first Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria , Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa . The motto of the university is DOCTRINA MATTER ARTIUM , which literally means " Education is the mother of the practical arts " . The university is known for having one of the best Engineering programme in Nigeria . The Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University was established in 1980 as Federal University of Technology , Bauchi , Nigeria . The institution 's first set of students were admitted in October 1981 for pre - degree and remedial programmes while the degree courses of the School of Science and Science Education began in October 1982 . On 1st October 1984 , the University was merged with Ahmadu Bello University Zaria , Nigeria with a subsequent change of its name to Abubakar Tafawa Balewa College , Ahmadu Bello University , Bauchi Campus . The University regained its autonomous status in 1988 following a general demerger of such institutions . This was followed by a subsequent change of its name to Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University , Bauchi . The Academic pattern of the University was formulated in 1980 after consultation with invited subject experts from Nigeria , United Kingdom and the United States of America . The solid foundation upon which the curriculum of the former Federal University of Technology was built was responsible for its sustenance all through the years of its existence and in particular after the merger . The curriculum adopted was purely applied in nature , for a technologically based institution and it is this theme that is being maintained in all the units of the University . Over two decades in existence , the University has come a long way in addressing some of the engineering , agricultural , scientific , environmental and technological challenges common to third world nations like Nigeria having been adjudged the fifth best University with one of the best engineering programmes in Nigeria . The University offers degrees through six schools : the Schools of Engineering , Science , Environmental Sciences , Agriculture , Management and the School of Postgraduate Studies . The University offers entry level bachelors degrees as well as both Masters and Doctorate degrees . Each school is headed by a Dean who reports Directly to the Vice Chancellor . The Vice Chancellor is the Executive head of the University . The Vice Chancellor is appointed by the Federal Government of Nigeria on recommendation by the National Universities Commission ( NUC ) . The current Vice Chancellor is Professor G. A. Babaji . 