The AMST is a private , non - profit making university , in Khartoum Sudan , which was established in 1996 to serve the educational needs of Sudanese , African and Arab students . In a few years the Academy has expanded to include 10 faculties namely , Medicine , Pharmacy , Medical Laboratory Sciences , Dentistry , Dental Technology , Nursing , Computer Sciences , Administrative & Financial Sciences Biomedical Engineering and Anaesthetic Sciences . The vision on which the AMST was established , is to provide quality universe graduates . Its belief is that recently government universities in the whole of Africa and the Arab countries have deteriorated and are often faced with diminishing resources both in human experts and material resources . The AMST offers two master degrees in Nursing ( community & paediatrics ) and a master degree in Public and Tropical Health . Training to be a doctor in medicine is challenging . The constant advances in technological services which are readily used in diagnosis and treatment of diseases necessitate a balanced curriculum between teaching bed - side medicine and high technologically oriented techniques in patient - management . Medicine as a discipline is based on science ( logical and evidence - based thinking ) , the art of diagnosis and human touch in patients care . In Sudan , endemic diseases , mainly of tropical nature , constitute a significant cause of diseases and also lay an extra burden on medical students learning etc. and expond the curriculum even further . With these challenges in mind , the Faculty of Medicine in the Academy was established in 1996 with the following objectives . To graduate medical doctors equipped with scientific basis of medicine , trained on patients care ( actual patients , not simulators or actors ) . And properly advised on ethical conduct and behavior.2 . To train the future doctors on modern diagnostic and treatment modalities including advance imaging techniques and advance therapeutic treatment.3 . To enable the student to think in terms of critical analysis of medical conditions equipped with sound research methods and be able to answer a research question in an acceptable way and be able to produce a research thesis on graduation . 4. The graduate shall combine knowledge of primary health care and hospital and institute early treatment of primary health problems . The Faculty of Medicine is equipped with lecture theatres and advance laboratories ( Biochemistry , Physiology , Physics , Dissection room , Biology / Molecular biology and Skills laboratory ) . The Teaching Hospital and a number of health centers were also established to receive the students . Moreover , two - specialized high tech diagnostic / treatment clinics were opened to receive the students for training : a ) Yastabshiroon Centre ( where advance imaging techniques were housed e.g. MRI , Spiral CT , ultrasound and echo scan , EEG , EMG , Endoscopy with laproscopic surgery , lazer treatment facilities . The school of Dentistry was established in 1971 as part of fcaulty of medicine .but was renamed faculty of Dentistry in 1998 after extensive developments and expansion of buildings and deparments. . To establish curricula that are comprehensive , modern and relevant . To actively participate in the dental national healthcare programs . The Faculty of Dentistry conducts a course of studies leading the degree of Bachelor of Dental Surgery ( B.D.S. ) to students who satisfy the regulations and successfully pass the examinations undertaken during five academic years . The Faculty of Dentistry is located at the Academy Charity Teaching 