The Academy of National Defence ( AON , Akademia Obrony Narodowej ) is the highest military university of Poland , located in Warsaw and Rembertów . It was founded in 1947 under the name of Academy of General Staff . The Academy , subordinate directly to the Chief of General Staff of the Polish Army , is the alma mater of all future Polish Army commanding officers and staff officers . It also conducts extensive research on military doctrines , strategy and tactics , and cooperates with the Military Technical Academy in research of military equipment . The present Academy of National Defence inherits the traditions of all previous Polish military academies . The first such school , the Szkoła Rycerska , was founded in 1765 by king Stanisław August Poniatowski . Among its graduates were some of the most notable military men of 18th and 19th centuries , including Tadeusz Kościuszko , Jakub Jasiński , Maurycy Hauke , Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz , Karol Kniaziewicz , Józef Sowiński , Kazimierz Nestor Sapieha and Rajmund Rembliński . In 1794 , after the Partitions of Poland , the school was closed . However , after 1815 the recreation of Kingdom of Poland allowed for opening several military colleges in Poland . The most notable of them , the Szkoła Aplikacyjna Artylerii i Inżynierii ( Application School of Artillery and Engineering ) , was located in Warsaw and trained the cadres of the Polish Army fighting in the November Uprising against Russia . Only ca. 24 officers were admitted every year , which made its graduates an elite of the Polish armed forces . As an interesting fact , the French language professor at that school was Mikołaj Chopin , father of renowned composer and pianist Fryderyk Chopin . After the November Uprising , the school was closed by Russian authorities . However , military training of Polish officers continued in many foreign schools , most notably in France and Italy . After the rebirth of Poland in 1918 , there was already a well - trained and experienced cadre of Polish field officers trained in the armies of the partitioners ( Russia , Germany and Austria - Hungary ) as well as in France . However , the occupants of Poland rarely promoted the Poles to higher ranks and the reborn Polish Army was seriously lacking officers trained in general staff duties and in command of entire armies . To eliminate the problem , in cooperation with the French Military Mission to Poland and the Paris - based Ecole Superieure de Guerre , a Szkoła Wojenna Sztabu Generalnego ( War School of the General Staff ) was formed in mid - 1919 . After the Polish - Bolshevik War , on August 16 , 1922 , the school was renamed to Wyższa Szkoła Wojenna ( WSW , Higher War School ) . Until 1928 , most professors were French , with Polish officers serving mostly as their assistants . Among them was Charles de Gaulle , the future president of France , who was a professor of tactics . The training was not limited to military affairs and among the civilians working there were some of the most notable scientists of the era , including Tadeusz Kotarbiński , Edward Lipiński and Marian Kukiel . Apart from the theoreticians , the professors included a large number of officers who gained combat experience in World War I , Polish - Bolshevik War , Polish - Ukrainian War and Polish - Lithuanian War , as well as the Greater Poland Uprising and Silesian Uprisings . 