Acadia is one of Canada 's leading primarily undergraduate universities , and also one of the most costly . It is structured into three primary faculties : Arts , Pure & Applied Science , and Professional Studies . The faculty of Theology at Acadia is semi - autonomous from the University . This faculty has its own governing board and is overseen by the Convention of Atlantic Baptist Churches , but theology degrees granted are from Acadia University and students in this faculty are considered to be Acadia students . For more information , see Acadia Divinity College . Acadia began as Horton Academy ( 1828 ) , which was founded by Baptists from Nova Scotia . The two major Universities of the day in Nova Scotia were heavily controlled by Denominational structures . King 's College ( University of King 's College ) was an Anglican School and Dalhousie University , which was originally non - denominational , had placed itself under the control and direction of the Church of Scotland . It was the failure of Dalhousie to appoint a prominent Baptist pastor and scholar , Edmund Crawley , to the Chair of Classics , as had been expected , that really thrust into the forefront of Baptist thinking the need for a College established and run by the Baptists . In 1838 , the Nova Scotia Baptist Education Society founded Queen 's College ( named for Queen Victoria ) . The College began with 21 students in January 1839 . The name " Queen 's College " was denied to the Baptist school , so it was renamed " Acadia College " in 1841 , in reference to the history of the area as an Acadian settlement . It became a university in 1891 . The Granville Street Baptist Church ( now First Baptist Church Halifax ) was an instrumental and determining factor in the founding of the University . It has played a supporting role throughout its history , and shares much of the credit for its survival and development . Many individuals who have made significant contributions to Acadia University , including the first president John Pryor , were members of the First Baptist Church Halifax congregation . Similarly , the adjacent Wolfville United Baptist Church plays a significant role in the life of the university . This was unique at the time , and a direct result of Baptists being denied entry into other schools that required religious tests of their students and staff . As of 2006 , Acadia 's president is Gail Dinter - Gottlieb who took on the position after the retirement of past president Kelvin Ogilvie in 2003 . One of Ogilvie 's last acts was to oversee the drafting of a new master plan for the university 's expansion , prepared by noted US architect Robert Stern . In February and March of 2004 , Acadia experienced its first ever strike by the faculty . Professors and librarians were off the job for two weeks before they reached a settlement . Under Ogilvie , the University Administration and Alumni Association frequently quarrelled over issues relating to the University 's future and the role of the Alumni Association . The rift grew so great that alumni donations were significantly reduced , further exacerbating the high tuition " crisis. " . Shortly after the installment of Dr. Dinter - Gottlieb as president and Vice Chancellor in 2004 , however , the two bodies signed a Memorandum of Understanding . The Acadia Advantage is an academic programme unique in Canada where each 