The Academy of Art University ( formerly Academy of Art College ) , a for - profit career college owned by the Stephens Institute , was founded in San Francisco , California in 1929 by Richard S. Stephens . In recent years , the Academy has expanded to occupy over 30 buildings in downtown San Francisco . With an enrollment of approximately 9,500 students , the Academy is reportedly the largest art and design school in the United States . In 1929 , the Academy of Art University was established in San Francisco as the Academy of Art Advertising by Richard S. Stephens , a fine arts painter and Creative Director for Sunset Magazine . Assisted by his wife , Clara Stephens , Richard S. Stephens opened the new school in a rented loft at 215 Kearny Street to teach advertising art . Over the next few years after opening the school , Stephens hired a faculty of practicing art and design professionals and formulated the school 's philosophy to hire established professionals to teach future professionals . In 1933 , the curriculum was expanded to include Fashion Illustration , and a Fine Art Department was added in 1936 to the course offerings . Stephen 's son , Richard A. Stephens , took over direction of the school after graduating from Stanford University in 1951 . During Richard A. Stephens 's tenure as the school 's president , the Academy expanded its enrollment from 50 to 5,200 students . Richard A. Stephens oversaw continued expansion of department majors , starting with the addition of a Foundations Department , which offered courses in the basic principles of art and design , along with other Fine Art departments . In 1966 , the school was incorporated as the Academy of Art College , and the California Bureau for Private Postsecondary and Vocational Education granted the school the authority to confer the Bachelor of Fine Arts degree that same year . In 1977 , the Academy of Art College added the Master of Fine Arts program to its degree offerings , marking the inauguration of its graduate school , with the state of California later approving the Masters program in 1983 . In 1992 , Elisa Stephens , granddaughter of the school 's founder , succeeded her father , Richard A. Stephens , as president of the school . The Academy of Art University offers both on - campus ( traditional instructor - led ) and distance education ( online ) degree and Certificate programs in its fine arts programs . These programs include Associate of Arts and Bachelor of Fine Arts for undergraduate degrees , Master of Fine Arts and Master of Architecture for graduate degrees , and certificate programs for personal enrichment . The Academy offers degree and certificate programs in 13 majors : Advertising , Animation & Visual Effects , Architecture ( MFA and M.Arch only ) , Computer Arts & New Media , Digital Arts & Communications ( AA and BFA only ) , Fashion , Fine Art , Graphic Design , Illustration , Industrial Design , Interior Architecture & Design , Motion Pictures & Television and Photography . In June 2007 , the Academy of Art University received regional accreditation from the Western Association of Schools and Colleges ( WASC ) , one of the six major regional accreditation commissions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education . Degree programs offered by the Academy of Art University ( except the online Architecture program ) are also nationally accredited by the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools ( 