Adamson University ( AdU ) is a Catholic university in Manila , Philippines . It was founded in 1932 . It is a member of the University Athletic Association of the Philippines ( UAAP ) . Being a Catholic institution , it participates in the mission of the Church to critically communicate human culture and promote the total formation of a human being . It seeks to contribute to an improved quality of human life together with the environment by undertaking research and extending relevant community services . Currently , Adamson is ranked sixth among Philippine universities based on number of Centers of Excellence and Development . Adamson University was founded in 1932 by the late Dr. George Lucas Adamson and his cousins , Alexander Adamson and George Athos Adamson , as the Adamson School of Industrial Chemistry . Initial efforts were directed towards the developmental needs of the Philippines , particularly in the areas of science and chemical technology . On February 5 , 1941 , the school was granted university status by the Department of Education . On December 4 , 1964 , the university was turned over to the Vincentian Fathers of the Congregation of the Mission ( CM ) and was incorporated into the Adamson Ozanam Education Institutions , Inc . Today , Adamson University has programs in graduate education , law , the arts and sciences , engineering , nursing , pharmacy , architecture , business administration , teacher education , as well as secondary , elementary , and preparatory education . In February 2007 , Adamson University will celebrate its 75th founding day . St. Vincent was born of poor parents in the village of Pouy in Gascony , France , about 1580 . He enjoyed his first schooling under the Franciscan Fathers at Acqs . Such had been his progress in four years that a gentleman chose him as subpreceptor to his children , and he was thus enabled to continue his studies without being a burden to his parents . In 1596 , he went to the University of Toulouse for theological studies , and there he was ordained priest in 1600 . The Apostle of Charity , the immortal Vincent de Paul , breathed his last in Paris at the age of eighty . His feast day is September 27 . He is the patron of charitable societies . The only University in the Philippines offering a course to prepare high level technician for industries , manufacturing : Whitewares , Tile , Glass , Enamels , Cement , Limes , and Plasters , Refractories , Structural Clay Products , Insulations , etc . Accredited by the Phil . Accredited by the Phil . After the Vincentians took over the University , twelve units of theology courses were required for graduation . This means that a student had to stay in class for around 150 hours before he is given his graduation diploma from Adamson University . During a particular semester as many as 8,000 students are taking one of the four subjects in theology : Introductory Course in Theology , The Bible , Dogma and the Sacraments , Morals and Ethics . Some of the Vincentian administrators willingly spend hours in the classroom but the vast majority of the professors are laymen and women , some of them Ladies of Charity and members of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul , who have degrees in Catholic Theology . The importance of the religious teaching can be glimpsed from the fact that the majority of the poor students who study at 