Adams State College is a small state - supported liberal arts college in Alamosa , Colorado , USA , in Colorado 's San Luis Valley . Adams State was founded in 1921 as a teacher 's college but now offers a variety of programs including masters degrees in many fields . Billy Adams , a Colorado legislator who would later become governor , worked for three decades before obtaining the authorization to found Adams State Normal School in 1921 . His goal was to educate teachers for remote , rural areas , such as the San Luis Valley . With only a grade school education himself , Adams came to the SLV in 1879 at the age of 17 to begin ranching . Within three years , he was mayor of Alamosa . Alamosa was a rough - hewn town in those days . The Rio Grande typically flooded each spring , turning Main Street to mud . Once the college was built , a hedge of Russia n olive trees had to be planted along the campus edge to keep out herds of horses . Then , as now , potatoes were the area’s primary cash crop . But grain and vegetables were also raised , as well as cattle , sheep and pigs . The Denver & Rio Grande Railroad shipped them east . The perseverance demonstrated by Billy Adams in founding his teachers college also characterized those who took over the task of making Adams State more than a dream . The communities of Alamosa and the San Luis Valley faithfully supported the efforts of individuals such as Dr. Ira Richardson , the college’s first president . Billy Adams passed away in 1954 , just shy of his 93rd birthday . He left the school $10,000 . Alamosa , Colorado is a small city with a population of about 9133 , located in the heart of the San Luis Valley . The college 's campus , which is 90 acres in size , holds all academic buildings and residential complexes . The college 's main administration building is Richardson Hall , which is named after the school 's first president , Dr. Ira Richardson . The campus includes facilities for the music department , art department , as well as a newly constructed theatre building , erected in 2001 . The William Porter Math and Science hall is named for alumni William Porter , who is the creater of E * Trade , and a large benefactor of the school . The school also includes two gyms , one for student recreation , and Plachy Hall , mainly for the college 's sporting groups . There are five on campus aparments , as well as three traditional dorm complexes . Coronado and Girault hall contain the majority of the entering freshmen . The school 's sports teams are called the Grizzlies . They participate in the NCAA 's Division II , and in the Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference . 