Adelphi University is a private nonsectarian university located in Garden City , in Nassau County , New York . A nationally accredited school , it is the oldest institution of higher learning on Long Island . In 2005 , the Princeton Review listed Adelphi as one of the nation 's best universities in the Northeast . In 2006 , the Princeton Review listed Adelphi as one of the nation 's best universities . In March 2006 , the university began construction of new academic facilities and expansion of existing structures which will increase art studio space , increase the theater department , and enhance the sports and recreation building . Adelphi University began with the Adelphi Academy , founded in Brooklyn , New York in 1863 . The academy was a preparatory school located at 412 Adelphi Street , in the Fort Greene neighborhood of Brooklyn . It was formally chartered in 1869 by the Board of Trustees of the City of Brooklyn for establishing " a first class institution for the broadest and most thorough training , and to make its advantages as accessible as possible to the largest numbers of our population. " . One of the teachers at the Adelphi Academy was Harlan Fiske Stone , who later served as the Chief Justice of the United States . In 1893 , Dr. Charles Herbert Levermore was appointed the head of Adelphi Academy . Seeking to establish a liberal arts college for the City of Brooklyn , Levermore received a charter from the Board of Regents of the State of New York , officially establishing Adelphi College on June 24 , 1896 . The college received its charter through the efforts of Timothy Woodruff , former Lieutenant Governor of New York and future first president of the Board of Trustees . Adelphi was one of the first coeducational institutions to receive a charter from the State of New York . At the time of its foundation , the college numbered only 57 students and 16 instructors . The Adelphi Academy continued to exist as a separate , but nonetheless connected entity to the college . In 1912 , Adelphi became a college devoted exclusively to the education of women . In 1922 , the school raised over one million dollars to expand the overcrowded facilities in Brooklyn . In 1925 , Adelphi College severed its ties with the Adelphi Academy . In 1929 , the college moved from its founding location in Brooklyn to the current location of its main campus in Garden City , New York . The original three buildings of the Garden City campus , Levermore Hall , Blodgett Hall , and Woodruff Hall , were designed by the famed architectural firm McKim , Mead and White . In 1938 , the Dance Program was founded by the world famous dancer Ruth St. Denis ; it was the first dance [ program ever established at an American college . In 1943 , the School of Nursing was established in response to the need for nurses due to American involvement in World War II ; like the Dance Program , it was the first of its kind in the nation . First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt presided over the opening of two federally funded residence halls on campus , in a speech entitled " The Challenge of Nursing for Young Women Today. " . Following World War II , Adelphi reverted back to a coeducational college and started admitting new students on the federal GI Bill . New sports teams were created following the readmission of men 