Adrian College athletic teams , nicknamed the Bulldogs , are part of the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association ( MIAA ) , and the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) - Division III . Greek life is present on campus , including Phi Kappa Sigma , Alpha Tau Omega , Theta Chi , and Sigma Alpha Epsilon . There are also three sororities , Alpha Phi , Alpha Sigma Alpha , and Chi Omega . The college had its origin as a theological institute founded by Wesleyan Methodists at Leoni , Michigan in 1845 . This institution merged with Leoni Seminary , another Methodist school , in 1855 to form Michigan Union College . In 1859 , that institution closed and assets were transferred to Adrian to establish Adrian College . The college was chartered by the Michigan Legislature on March 28 , 1859 , under the first President of the College , abolitionist Asa Mahan . In the early stages of the American Civil War the College volunteered itself as a base for the formation of Michigan regiments for the Union side . The current North Hall building sits on the site of the former base camp for these soldiers . Adrian College has a long history of social activism , which is highlighted in its mission statement . Adrian College , a liberal arts College in the United Methodist tradition , is committed to the pursuit of truth and to the dignity of all people . Through active and creative learning in a supportive community , students are challenged to achieve excellence in their academic , personal , and professional lives , and to contribute to a more socially just society . Adrian 's alumni include executives at Fortune 500 companies , U.S. Congressman Mike Rogers , distinguished businessmen and women , educators , attorneys , and physicians . Adrian College offers over 40 majors and pre - professional programs . Adrian College athletic teams , nicknamed the Bulldogs , are part of the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association and the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division III . Some of these programs will be new in the 2007 - 2008 Academic Year . Intramurals are also a part of Adrian College and the athletic department . Some of the intramural teams include : Flag Football , Bulldog Run 5K , Bowling League , Texas Hold'em , Disc Golf , Racquetball , 5 - on - 5 Basketball , Women 's 3 - on - 3 Basketball , Coed Volleyball League , Powder Puff Flag Football , and Coed 1 - Pitch Softball . On June 30 , 2005 , Stanley P. Caine retired after 16 years as president of Adrian College . The next day , Jeffrey Docking became Adrian College 's 17th president , after serving as a Vice President at Washington and Jefferson College in Washington , Pennsylvania . Since arriving at Adrian , Docking has introduced many plans to revitalize Adrian College and its campus , including construction of new buildings , renovation of old ones , and programs related to athletics such as the construction of a new ice arena . Many of these initiatives are grouped under his " Renaissance Project " . Docking 's initiatives and related changes , however , have caused some controversy . The decision to introduce mandatory four - year residency for all students " to raise funds " is a departure from previous policies . At a town hall - style meeting between students and administration concerning the drastic changes in housing policy , the Dean of Student 