The Adventist International Institute of Advanced Studies ( AIIAS ) is a graduate level educational institution of the Seventh - day Adventist Church . AIIAS ( pronounced " I - Us " ) is a locally and internationally accredited institution located in Silang , Cavite , Philippines , about 25 miles ( 40 km ) south of Manila . The institution , with students and faculty from over 40 countries , is comprised of two schools : the Theological Seminary and the School of Graduate Studies ( SGS ) . The Seminary offers degree programs in Applied Theology , Biblical Studies , and Theological - Historical Studies , and SGS offers degrees in the areas of Business , Education , and Health . Flags around the AIIAS Bell Tower during graduation . AIIAS officially came into existence on February 24 , 1986 through Philippine Presidential Decree 2021 . In 1991 the school was moved to its current location in Silang , Cavite , Philippines . Prior to that it was located on the campus of the Adventist University of the Philippines . AIIAS 's areas of studies are divided into two main entities , the Theological Seminary , and the School of Graduate Studies ( SGS ) , though there is also an English Center to prepare students whose English is not adequate . AIIAS offers distance education through its Division of Online Learning , which offers several master 's degrees online , and its Distance Learning Centers operating throughout Asia . The Theological Seminary offers the following graduate and doctoral degrees : Master of Ministry ( M.Min. ) , Master of Divinity ( M.Div. ) , Master of Arts ( M.A. ) in Religion , Doctor of Ministry ( D.Min. ) , and Doctor of Philosophy ( Ph.D. ) in Religion . The School of Graduate Studies ( SGS ) offers the Master of Business Administration ( M.B.A. ) degree , Master of Public Health ( M.P.H. ) , and a Master of Arts degree in Education . SGS also offers an Education Specialist ( Ed.S. ) degree and a Doctor of Philosophy degree ( Ph.D. ) in Education . Beginning in June 2007 , SGS will begin offering a Ph.D. in Business Administration . The M.P.H is also offered online , and the M.B.A. is scheduled to be offered online beginning in 2008 . The official school year at AIIAS begins in June and consists of two semesters . There is also a half - semester of classes offered during the summer months from March through May . There are two commencement services per year , in March and October . AIIAS students represent over 40 countries , and come from all the continents of the world . Students range in age from their early 20 's to 50 's . Most students live in on - campus apartment towers . Families occupy entire apartments , while singles have the option of sharing apartments to reduce expenses . There is housing available off - campus within 2 - 3 minutes walking distance . Silang ( the nearby town ) also has housing available , along with a market and many stores . Approximately 300 students are enrolled on campus , with distance learning centers accounting for another 700 . AIIAS Alumni hold prestigious positions around the world and help spread the good news to the world . AIIAS has a semi - annual Alumni magazine called Flags . 