The Aga Khan University ( AKU ) is a coeducational research university in Pakistan . It was granted its charter in 1983 as Pakistan 's first private , autonomous university . AKU was founded by His Highness the Aga Khan , and is part of the Aga Khan Development Network . AKU has campuses on three continents , but its principal campus is located in the metropolitan city of Karachi , Pakistan . According to the Higher Education Commission ( HEC ) ranking of Universities in Pakistan , The Aga Khan University ranked first in Health Sciences , with a cumulative rank score higher than any other university in Pakistan . The HEC also ranked the University number one overall in Pakistan based on the global impact of its research . AKU’s objective is to promote human welfare in general , and the welfare of the people of Pakistan in particular , by disseminating knowledge and providing instruction , training , research and service in the health sciences , education , liberal arts , the sciences and such other branches of learning as the University may determine . AKU is a non - denominational institution open to all , irrespective of religion , ethnicity , gender or national origin . Student enrollment is non - discriminatory and among the most competitive in Pakistan . AKU alumni , known as Akuites have gone on to assume faculty positions at several prestigious universities in the United States and the United Kingdom . Forty - four percent of the University’s faculty are women , many in senior posts . Fifty percent of students in the Medical College are also women . The University’s admissions policy is needs - blind and based on merit . Over 33 percent of the students receive financial aid . AKU attracts students from all over Pakistan and several other countries , with diverse backgrounds , cultures and religions on one campus , fostering a sense of camaraderie , and friendship . In its first two decades , AKU’s major development focus was in the fields of health and education . In the decade ahead , the University plans to move beyond professional education towards becoming a comprehensive university , with the establishment of a Faculty of Arts and Sciences . The new Faculty will offer postgraduate and professional training , with the objective of developing leaders for the public , private and not - for - profit sectors . In addition , the University is in the process of planning new academic and research units . These include an Institute of Economic Growth and Society and an Institute of Planning and Management of Human Settlements . Another programme under consideration is an Institute of Human Development , which would be dedicated to advancing the understanding of the effects and conditions of early childhood on subsequent well - being and performance , and the application of this understanding to the development of interventions and evaluation to assess their potential efficacy and applicability . The Aga Khan University accounts for 70 % of all biomedical research in Pakistan while the remaining 30 per cent is shared by all the other institutions . AKU emphasizes the importance of scientific research and maintains an advanced and organized infrastructure to support this endeavour . AKU publishes more research articles in peer - reviewed , indexed internationally recognised journals than any other university in Pakistan . Scientific research is an integral part of the academic life at the University ; faculty promotions are dependent on publications in indexed journals while most medical students have 