Agape College in Little Rock , Arkansas was established in 19 - - by Happy & Jeanne Caldwell . An institution of higher education to train and equip godly men and women with the knowledge , skills and attitudes for leadership . A Christ - centered , biblically oriented curriculum that recognizes the Bible as the infallible authority in all manner of faith and conduct . A program designed to enrich all students’ knowledge and understanding of sound biblical doctrine . A curriculum and atmosphere that promotes spiritual , personal , and professional growth and provides a foundation for life - long change and enrichment . An environment that challenges students to think proactively and form a generational , Christian worldview . The College Prepatory Courses are designed to enable a student to fulfill college entrance requirements both at Agape College and at other institutions . Students are prepared to achieve an acceptable score on the SAT and ACT college entrance exams or the COMPASS placement examination administered at Agape College . These courses are designed for both Agape College applicants and the general student population preparing for ACT and SAT testing . The Diploma Study Program is designed for students who are interested in detailed Scriptural studies in a less rigorous setting than college level courses . This ministerial studies program is a two - year regimen . Selected courses in this program may be able to be combined into two three - hour college courses for those who wish to transfer those hours into the Agape College degree program . The College Degree Program offers an Associate of Strategic Leadership degree . The two - year , 61 credit hour program involves classes that meet Monday , Tuesday and Thursday evenings each week of the semester . For student convenience , each class offering is taught on a single evening in a three - hour setting . This section may stray from the topic of the article . Please help ] improve this section ] or discuss this issue on the ] . In 1979 Happy Caldwell said God told him to build a spiritual production center in Little Rock , in order to take the good news of Jesus Christ to the city , state , nation and world . Happy and his wife Jeanne founded Agape Church , a strong spirit - filled body of believers . Through his deep sensitivity to the Spirit of God , and his anointed teaching - the lost are being saved , the sick healed , and thousands are being blessed . In 1988 Happy and Jeanne answered what they felt to be a direct call from the Lord to take His message beyond Central Arkansas . They founded VTN - the Victory Television Network . This network of 3 full power TV stations is carried on over 200 cable systems and is bringing the Gospel into more than 1.2 million households . Through his own daily program , Arkansas Alive , Happy presents the Word in profound simplicity , making the character of God a revelation to those who hear . Also desiring to see spiritual excellence in education , the ministry of Agape Church has grown to include an elementary academy , a school of world evangelism , and Agape College which offers both diploma and degree programs . Happy 's ministry is known for instilling Christian principles in strategic leadership . He was honored for this in 2005 with an invitation to participate in the U.S. Army War College Strategic Leader Staff Ride . In addition to 