Agnes Scott College is a private liberal arts women 's college in Decatur , Georgia , near Atlanta . The college currently enrolls 914 students . Agnes Scott is affiliated with the Presbyterian Church ( USA ) . The undergraduate school offers 30 majors and 25 minors . Students who graduate from Agnes Scott receive a Bachelor of Arts degree . 87 % of the faculty are full - time , and 100 % of the tenure - track faculty hold terminal degrees . The student - to - faculty ratio is 10:1 . It is considered one of the Seven Sisters of the South and is one of forty college profiled in the book Colleges That Change Lives , by Loren Pope . The college was founded in 1889 as Decatur Female Seminary by Presbyterian minister Frank H. Gaines . In 1890 , the name was changed to Agnes Scott Institute to honor the mother of the college 's primary benefactor , Col. George Washington Scott . The name was changed again to Agnes Scott College in 1906 . Agnes Scott ( Main ) Hall , the oldest building on campus , was built in 1891 and once housed the entire school . Agnes Scott is considered the first higher education institution in the state of Georgia to receive regional accreditation . The current president is Elizabeth Kiss , the founding director of Duke University 's Kenan Institute for Ethics . Students at Agnes Scott are known as " Scotties. " . The school colors of Agnes Scott are purple and white , while the mascot is Irvine , a Scottish Terrier . Each incoming class is assigned a class color out of red , yellow , blue , or green and votes on a class mascot that correlates with that color . The colors and mascots are intended to establish class pride , particularly during one week of fun - filled activities called Black Cat. Black Cat occurs every fall and culminates in a series of skits written , directed , and performed by the junior class . If there is dissatisfaction with a class mascot , the class is given the option to revote and choose a different mascot their second year . The class ring is given to students during the spring of their sophomore year in a special ceremony . The ring design , with its rectangular engraved black onyx stone , has remained essentially the same since its introduction in the 1920s with minor choices ( metal , size , and antiquing ) emerging in recent years . The honor code is held in high regard among Agnes Scott students and faculty . At the beginning of every academic year , new students must sign the honor code and recite a pledge promising to uphold the high academic and social standards of the institution . Those students who uphold the code are allowed to take unproctored class tests and take - home examinations . Agnes Scott 's NCAA Division III sports teams include basketball , cross country , soccer , softball , swimming , tennis , and volleyball . In April 2007 , Kiplinger named Agnes Scott as one of the top 50 private liberal arts colleges . According to the 2007 US News and World Report , Agnes Scott is ranked the 61st best liberal arts college in the country . It is the highest ranked women 's college in the southeast . The report also ranked Agnes Scott as No. 28 for " Great School , Great Price. " . New York 