The Agora University is a private high education and research institution in Romania , developed inside the Agora Foundation . Its high standards of teaching and research had already created a name in the education sector . Strongly research oriented , it is known as an innovative and progressive institution which has made quality the core policy concern in all areas of the academic and cultural life of a multidisciplinary university with a well established international profile . Agora University is committed to prepare students for the challenges of a rapidly changing workplace . As a major public University it has a radical commitment to the implementation of new forms of teaching , training and research which reflects its primary objective of serving the society in which it is embedded . It is in the context and in the framework of university autonomy that AGORA offers a diverse of study programs in response and adapted to the challenges of globalization and accelerated social and economic change . Agora University is an alternative to the superior state education and complementary to it , which using a scientific political way to manage founds , it succeeded to maintain a low level of the scholar taxes that are not modified through an education cycle . More , AGORA Foundation offers 20 free places for each specialization ( AGORA scholarships ) and social scholarships . The staff is involved in international cooperation with foreign institutions , having good relationship and agreements with universities from Italy , U.S.A. , France , Lithuania , Hungary . AGORA University together with The Institute of Political Studies San Pio V of Rome , Italy opened the first series of courses for the Italian residents in Romania in 2001 . The program was financed by the Italian Ministry of Labor and Social Assistance . The San Pio V University of Rome , Italy , The University of Malta and AGORA University opened in 2003 The Master studies on Economical and Cultural Cooperation : " The Human Rights in The Mediterranean Region , The Ways of a Lasting Development " . The Agora University Editing House is recognized by the CNCSIS ( NURC - The National University Research Council ) and is publishing monographs , books , university courses and specialized journals . Agora – Studies ( Romanian : Agora – Studii ) , an annual journal ( from 2001 ) structured on two scientific domains : juridical science and economical sciences . The articles from this journal can be written in Romanian with a resume in English or directly in one of the following international languages : English , French , Spanish or German . IJCCC ( International Journal of Computers , Communications and Control ) , a scientific journal in informatics that is published from 2006 and has 4 issues per year . Every issue is published in online format and print format . It offers free online access to the full content of the journal . CCC Publications , powered by AGORA University Publishing House , currently publishes IJCCC and its scope is to publish scientific literature ( journals , books , monographs and conference proceedings ) in the area : Computing , Communications , Control . 