The Ahmedabad Textile Industry 's Research Association ( commonly known as ATIRA ) is an autonomous non - profit association for textile research located in Ahmedabad , India . It is the largest association for textile research & allied industries in India . Established on December 13 1947 and started in 1949 , ATIRA was recognized by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research under the Ministry of Science and Technology , Government of India . It was later linked to the Ministry of Textiles . The idea of ATIRA was conceived by Vikram Sarabhai , Kasturbhai Lalbhai and Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar . The foundation stone for the ATIRA complex was laid by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on 1 November 1950 which was inaugurated by the then Prime Minister of India Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru on completion on April 10 1954 . The architect of the ATIRA building is Achyut Kanvinde . Dr. Vikram Sarabhai served as its first honorary director . Memebership in ATIRA is voluntary . ATIRA has 146 member units in both India and abroad . Of these 93 are Ginning , Spinning , Weaving , Process Houses and Composite Textile Units and 53 are manufacturers of fibres , dyes , chemicals , instruments , equipments and machinery . ATIRA is financed by four sources - Annual Subscription from member units , income from the services it has rendered , sponsored research from the Industry , Ministry of Textiles , Ministry of Information Technology and other agencies like the Gujarat State Government.Grant aid is also provided by the Government of India . ATIRA 's governing council consists of 17 members . It consists of 5 elected members from the industry , including the Chairman , 3 nominated members from various departments of Government of India and 3 scientists as designated members . In addition to these a representative from the associate members and the president of the Ahmedabad Textile Mills Association are also the members of the council . The 4 Directors of Cotton Textile Research Associations are ex - officio members including the Director of ATIRA . At present the Association has a total membership of 91 units spread all over India . This consists of 10 original or privileged members units and 81 Associate Members units . The Director of ATIRA is also the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) of the organization . The current Director of ATIRA is Dr. A. K. Sharma . ATIRA is situated close to many prominent research and educational institutions like Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad , Physical Research Laboratory and Gujarat University . It has a 2,72,000 square metre campus which has a plant coverage of over 1000 trees . This has made it a popular spot for morning walks and jogging among local residents . 