Ain Shams University ( Arabic : جامعة عين شمس ) is a renowned institute of higher education located in Cairo , Egypt . Founded in 1950 , The university provides studies at the undergraduate , graduate and post - graduate levels . Being a major scientific and cultural institution , Ain Shams University has played an undeniable role in developing the cultural and scientific life in Egypt and enriching human knowledge in general , with graduates that are aware and proud of their identity and traditions and are also ready for the creation of a better future for their country . Ain Shams University , was founded in July 1950 , making it the third - oldest non - sectarian native public Egyptian university ( ancient Islamic universities such as Al - Azhar and private institutions such as the American University in Cairo are older ) , under the name of " Ibrahim Pasha 's University " . It with the two earlier universities of this kind , Cairo University ( Fuad I university ) and Alexandria University ( Farouk I university ) had fulfilled the message of universities and meeting the increasing demand of youth for higher education . When it was first established , Ain Shams University comprised a number of distinguished faculties and academic institutes , which were later developed into university . After the military coup ( revolution ) that toppled the monarchy in 23 July 1952 , it was suggested that Egyptian universities be given names that were strongly linked with the roots and historical landmarks of the country . Thus on February 21 , 1954 the name of the university was changed to " Heliopolis " , and then changed in the same year to its present name " Ain Shams " , the Arabic for " Heliopolis " , or " O'n " , which was the oldest university in history . Perhaps a perfect example of the knowledge and skill of " O'n " teachers is Imhotep , the chief priest , minister , and architect , who in 2700 B.C. designed the first large structure of stone known in history , Zoser 's Step Pyramid in Sakkara . Westcar Papyrus also states that the founder of the Fifth Dynasty was the Rector of " O'n " University before ascending the throne . However , the most important achievement of " O'n " University was the call for worshipping a single deity , the solar disk of Aton , at the hands of Akhenaton , who was influenced by the ideas of " O'n " priests . In 1950 , there were only eight faculties : faculty of Arts , faculty of law , faculty of Commerce , faculty of Science , faculty of Engineering , faculty of Medicine , faculty of Agriculture , and Women 's college . In 1969 , the faculty of Education , known since 1880 as Teachers ' college , became the ninth faculty in the university . In 1973 the faculty of Al - Alsun was made the tenth member in the university . However , the history of this faculty dates back to 1835 . In 1994 , a decree was issued for the establishment of two more faculties ; the faculty of Pharmacy and the faculty of Dentistry , the actual study was started the following year in both faculties . In the same year , it was decided to establish the faculty of Computers and Information Sciences , and the study started the following year . The last faculty to join the university 