The United States Air Force Air War College is a part of Air University , and is a component of the United States Air Force 's Air Education and Training Command , headquartered at Maxwell - Gunter Air Force Base , Alabama . Air War College was founded in 1946 by the United States War Department ( now the Department of Defense ) at what was then Maxwell Field . The college has operated continuously since its founding except for a period of six months during the Korean War . The college awards a Joint Professional Military Education Phase 1 ( JPME Phase 1 ) certification to residents who are jointly enrolled in the Master of Strategic Studies program though Air University . The program is open to Lieutenant Colonels and Colonels or equivalent in Navy rank or civil service grade who are accepted to the Master of Strategic Studies program at Air University . Air War College is the senior professional school of the US Air Force . It emphasizes the development of the knowledge , skills and attributes required of all Air Force senior officers , with special focus on their application to large organization and institutional leadership responsibilities . Upon completion of this program , the student is able to analyze and provide advice on national and international security policy , with an emphasis on development and employment of aerospace power . It includes case studies and extensive supplementary reading on military strategy , national and international security , and aerospace allocations for the purpose of developing and employing aerospace power . The curriculum , in particular , focuses on the historical evolution of US and foreign military strategy and doctrine ; the nature of air power and its role in the international system ; changing threats to national and international security ; and regional studies with an assessment of the effects of regional developments on US and global security . Focus is also on the impact of science and technology on weapons systems and on national and international security ; the formulation and implementation of national defense and security ; and the allocation and management of defense resources . Graduate level credit allocation upon completion includes 6 semester hours in military history and strategy , 3 in regional studies , 6 in defense resource management , and 12 in defense policy / national and international security ( 27 semester hours total ) . 