The Aklan State University ( ASU ) is an educational institution in the Western Visayas region of the Philippines . Its main campus is located in the town of Banga in Aklan , with four other campuses scattered across the province . The ASU focuses on the fields of agriculture , fishery , arts and sciences , engineering and technology , and education . Formerly known as the Aklan State College of Agriculture ( ASCA ) and the Aklan Agricultural College ( AAC ) , the institution gained university status on April 4 , 2001 with the signing of Republic Act 9055 by President Gloria Macapagal - Arroyo . The view of the ASU - Banga Campus from the university hotel . The Aklan State University has five campuses , the biggest of which is the one located in Banga . The Banga Campus occupies 99.92 hectares of land below Manduyog Hill , a tourist attraction famous for its life - sized Way of the Cross . The Banga Campus of the ASU is home to the College of Agriculture , Forestry , and Environmental Science ( CAFES ) , School of Arts and Sciences ( SAS ) , School of Veterinary Medicine ( SVM ) , and the Graduate School ( GS ) . Being the main campus of the university , the ASU - Banga has the best facilities of all five campuses , having a swimming pool , dormitories , and a university hotel that also caters to non - ASU people . The ASU campus in Kalibo , the provincial capital of Aklan , is home to the School of Industrial Technology ( SIT ) . Thus , the ASU - Kalibo Campus is also called the ASU - SIT . Being located in Andagao , a busy area in Kalibo , the ASU - Kalibo is the smallest of the five campuses , only occupying 8.07 hectares . The Kalibo campus was formerly called the Roxas Memorial School of Arts and Trades ( until 1983 ) , and then as the Roxas Memorial College of Arts and Trades ( whose acronym was pronounced as " RAM - CAT " ) . The ASU campus in Ibajay is home to the School of Rural Resources Development Management ( SRRDM ) . The campus was formerly known as the Western Aklan Polytechnic College , and before that as the Ibajay National Agricultural and Industrial School . Located in Colong - Colong , the campus occupies 25.286 hectares of land . The ASU campus in Makato originally served as an extension high school , and was thus called the ASU Annex . As of 2006 , the campus is home to the Teacher Education Center ( TEC ) , and occupies 10 hectares in Barangay Castillo . The ASU campus in New Washington is home to the School of Fisheries and Marine Sciences ( SFMS ) , and occupies 13.30 hectares of land . 