The Al - Huda Islamic Charitable Trust - ( HICT ) of Canterbury was established in Christchurch in July 1998 . HICT is a charitable non - profitable organisation that offers variety of educational and cultural services to New Zealand Cantabrians . Al - Huda is an Arabic word means " guidance " . HICT is the parent organisation of Al - Huda Islamic School ( HIS ) . HIS offers educational services and social studies and activities to all residents of Canterbury whom are interested in learning Arabic language , Cultural Studies , Islamic architecture , Islamic Aesthetics , Arabesque and Islamic Calligraphy . Al - Huda Islamic Charitable Trust , Inc. is supported by the Christchurch City Council , the Canterbury Community Trust , and user donations . HICT was established in July 1998 endeavouring teaching Arabic Language in Christchurch to school - age children of the expanded Islamic community in Canterbury . In 2002 , HICT went through major restructuring that added cultural studies to HIS offered curricula , such as Arabic Calligraphy , Islamic Architecture and Islamic Art . In 2005 , HIS offered teaching Arabic Language for adults . Maintain close contacts and communication with governmental and non governmental organisations , public domains and private entities and organisations seeking addressing the needs of our extended community . Oversee running HIS by providing for its organisational and funding needs , staffing , obtaining proper curricula and teaching material . Baher Zaghlool , Chair . Hannah Achram , Secetary . Kamal Hend , Treasurer . Maintain the cultural identity of our extended community as an enriching dimension , while bridging with the New Zealand culture by emphasis on similarities for better adhering and integration within the New Zealand Society . Provide out - of - school care in form of educational , social and sporting activities to the attendees with a get - together space , competitive social activities plus teaching Arabic which was provided indiscriminately to Arabs and non - Arabs . We always extend an open invitation to anyone who would be interested to join our activities or study Arabic . Providing for sound bi - cultural youngsters who will promote and facilitate trade and cultural ties with the Middle East in near future , where these ties are progressing ahead with New Zealand opening up new embassies in Egypt and others . Furthermore , recent trends show New Zealand becoming a premier destination for graduate and post - graduate academic studies for students from the Middle East , which will require better understanding and promotion . HIS is located in Hagley Community College in central Christchurch . HIS is located in in Block E , Classrooms E5 to E7. The shortest way to our classes is from Stewart Street off St Asaph Street ( Hagley Park end ) . Hannah Achram , Principal . Shahinaz Bakir , Beginners . Walaa Mortada , New Entrants . Hannah Achram , Intermediate . Ekram AbuZikry , Advanced . Hannah Achram , Adults . The website of the Al - Huda Islamic Charitable Trust - HICT . The website of the Al - Huda Islamic School - HIS . 