Al - Quds University ( Arabic : جامعة القدس ) , sometimes referred to as Jerusalem University , is the Palestinian university in Jerusalem . It was founded in 1984 , but its official constitution was written in 1993 when Mohammed Nusseibeh , its first Chancellor and Chancellor of the College of Science and Technology , announced its formation . Its founding constituent colleges included the colleges of Science and Technology , Paramedical Sciences , Arts and Religious Studies . Its School of Medicine , associated with the city 's Maqasid hospital , was the first college to be founded directly under the banner of Al - Quds in 1993 , and is the first Palestinian medical school . Al - Quds is governed by a Board of Trustees . The founding board was headed by Mohammed Nusseibeh and included Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Sheikh Ikrema Sabri , Adnan Husseini , Saeb Erekat and others as members . The first president , Hatem Husseini was followed by the current acting president , Sari Nusseibeh . The University , the only Arab University in Jerusalem , provides higher education and community services within the Jerusalem area and to the neighboring towns , villages and refugee camps in the West Bank . It has ten academic faculties on four campuses : Arts , Science and Technology , Medicine , Dentistry , Public Health , Law , Qur'an and Islamic Studies , Health Professions , Engineering , and Jurisprudence . These faculties accommodate more than six thousand students from the Jerusalem area and from the districts of Bethlehem , Hebron , Jenin , Jericho , Nablus , Ramallah and Tulkarem . The university continues to deliver educational services and engage students in positive learning experiences , so that they may envision and hope for a better future . The University maintains two Jerusalem campuses and administrative offices in the American Colony and in Beit Hanina , though since the Second Intifada many classes have been moved to other campuses in Abu Dis . Other campuses operate in the Ramallah suburb of al - Bireh . The university faces a major , unprecedented financial and operational crisis brought about by the dire economic and social situation presently prevailing in the area . Steady subsidies are not available , and the university is unable to charge its students full tuition fees commensurate with real costs . Recent contributions from Arab governments alleviated the crisis somewhat , enabling the university to pay a portion of the salaries of its 723 support staff employees and faculty members . This temporary , one - time assistance made it possible to re - start the present academic year . 