Founded in 1903 , Albany State University is a historically black , four year institution located in Albany , GA , a progressive city with a metropolitan statistical area population of 162,800 . The University is one of three historically black colleges and universities in the University System of Georgia . Albany State offers undergraduate and graduate liberal arts and professional degree programs . The school sits on a 204 acre campus with impressive historic and modern buildings . Joseph Winthrop Holley founded the institution in 1903 as the Albany Bible and Manual Training Institute . Holley was born in 1874 to former slaves in Winnsboro , South Carolina . Two Educators , Reverend Samuel Loomis and his wife , sent Holley to Brainerd Institute and then Revere Lay College in Massachusetts . While attending Revere Lay , Holley got to know one of the school 's trustees , New England businessman , Rowland Hazard . After taking a liking to Holley , Hazard arranged for him to continue his education at Phillips Academy in Andover , Massachusetts . Holley aspired to become a minister and prepared by completing his education at Pennsylvania 's Lincoln University . W.E.B DuBois inspired Holley to return to the South after he read Dubois 's writings on the plight of Black people in Albany , GA in The Souls of Black Folk . Holley relocated to Albany , GA to start a school . With the help of a $2,600 gift from the Hazard family , Holley organized a board of trustees and purchased 50 acres of land for the campus , all within a year . The aim of the institution at the time , was to provide elementary education and teacher training for the local Black population . The institution became financially state supported in 1917 as a two year agricultural and teacher training college . Its new name became The Georgia Normal and Agricultural College . In 1932 , The school became part of the University System of Georgia and in 1943 it was granted four - year status and renamed Albany State College . The transition to four - year status heavily increased the school 's enrollment . Holley served as President of the school from 1903 - 1943 . He was succeeded by Aaron Brown ( 1943 - 1954 ) , William Dennis ( 1954 - 1965 ) , Thomas Miller Jenkins ( 1965 - 1969 ) , Charles Hayes ( 1969 - 1980 ) , Billy C. Black ( 1980 - 1996 ) , Portia Holmes Shields ( 1996 - 2005 ) , and Everette J. Freeman ( 2005 - ) . The college played a significant role in the American Civil Rights Movement in the early 1960s . Many students from the school , black improvement organizations , and representatives from the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee ( SNCC ) came to together to create the Albany Movement . The movement brought prominent civil rights leaders to the town including Martin Luther King Jr . Today the Albany State University student body consists of both traditional and non - traditional students who make up the more than 3,500 student population . These students come primarily from Atlanta , southwest and middle Georgia , other U.S. states and many foreign countries . Albany State offers more than 30 undergraduate degree programs and six advanced degrees . Colleges include : The College of Business , The College of Arts and Sciences , The College of Education , and The College of Health Professions . The Graduate school degree programs include 