Location of Freiburg in Germany . Albert Ludwigs University of Freiburg ( German Albert - Ludwigs - Universit채t Freiburg ) was founded 1457 in Freiburg by the Habsburgs . One of the oldest universities in Germany , it has a long tradition of teaching the humanities , social sciences and natural sciences . The university is one of Germany 's most prestigious and a leading research as well as teaching institution in Europe . Kollegiengeb채ude I , erected in 1913 as main building of the university . Originally Albrechts University , the university started with four faculties ( theology , philosophy , medicine and law ) . Its establishment belongs to the second wave of German university foundings in the late Middle Ages , like the Eberhard Karls University of T체bingen and the University of Basel . Established by papal privilege ( papal bull ) the University in Freiburg actually was - like all or most universities in the middle ages - a corporation of the church body and therefore belonged to the Roman Catholic Church and its hierarchy . The bishop of Basel consequently was its provost or chancellor ( Kanzler ) , the bishop of Konstanz was its patron while the real founder of the university was the sovereign , Archduke Albert VI of Austria , being the brother of Frederick III , Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation . At its founding , the university was named after Albert VI of Austria . He provided the university with land and a huge amount of endowments as well as its own jurisdiction . Also he declared Albrechts University as the " county university " ( German Landesuniversit채t ) for his territory - in the past including an area from Alsace to Tyrol - until it was handed over to the Austrian House of Habsburg in 1490 . Shortly after that the university had a time of prosperity when numerous later famous humanists were educated there like Geiler von Kaysersberg , Johann Reuchlin or Jakob Wimpfeling . When Ulric Zasius was teaching law ( until 1536 ) , Freiburg became a centre of humanist jurisprudence . From 1529 to 1535 Erasmus of Rotterdam lived and taught in Freiburg . Since around 1559 the university was housed at the Altes Collegium ( " Old College " ) , today called the " new town - hall " . The importance of the university decreased during the time of the Counter - Reformation . To counter those tendencies , the administration of two faculties was handed over to the Roman - Catholic order of the Jesuits in 1620 . At times , especially during the disorders of the Thirty Years ' War , the university had to move out of Freiburg temporarily , e.g. from 1686 to 1698 , when French troops devastated Freiburg and the southern parts of the upper Rhine region . After Freiburg as the capital of Further Austria was re - conquered , a new time began for the university by the reforms of Empress Maria Theresa of Austria . The requirements for admission were changed for all faculties in 1767 ( before that time only Roman Catholics were allowed to study ) and Natural Sciences were added as well as Public Administration . Also in 1767 , the university became a governmental institution despite the Church 's protests . The Church finally lost its predominant influence on the university when the Jesuits were suppressed following a decree signed by Pope Clement XIII in 1773 . It also might have been the Zeitgeist 