Albion College is a small , private liberal arts college located in Albion , Michigan . Related to the United Methodist Church , it was founded in 1835 and was the first private college in Michigan to have a chapter of Phi Beta Kappa . It has a student population of about 1900 . The school 's sports teams are called the Britons and the school colors are purple and gold . They participate in NCAA 's Division III and the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association ( MIAA ) . Albion College is a member of the Great Lakes College Association and the Michigan Campus Compact , an organization dedicated to encouraging student volunteerism . Albion Time refers to the fact that classes begin at 10 minutes past the hour . This has led to the common practice of beginning events 10 minutes later than the scheduled time . The origin of Albion College lies not in the city of Albion , but about 10 miles southeast of the present location of the college . On March 23 , 1835 , Methodist Episcopal settlers in Spring Arbor Township obtained a charter for the Spring Arbor Seminary from the Michigan Territorial Legislature . Foundations for a building were begun in 1837 at a location about 3 miles southwest of the current village of Spring Arbor but were soon abandoned due to the economic turmoil caused by the Panic of 1837 . No classes were ever held at the Spring Arbor location . The trustees applied to move the seminary to Albion in 1838 , and the legislature approved the move in 1839 . With 60 acres ( 243,000 m² ) of land donated by Albion pioneer , Jesse Crowell , the cornerstone was laid for the first building in 1841 . In 1843 , now named the Wesleyan Seminary , classes were first held in the local Methodist Church . In 1844 , classes began in the newly constructed Central Building , which was rebuilt as the present Robinson Hall in 1907 . The Albion Female Collegiate Institute was founded in 1850 by the Wesleyan Seminary Corporation . The two schools merged in 1857 under the name The Wesleyan Seminary and Female College at Albion . On February 25 , 1861 , both schools were completely merged under the name Albion College when the school was fully authorized by the State legislature to confer a full four - year college degree upon both men and women . Albion College offers approximately 25 academic majors leading to Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Fine Arts degrees . In addition to the academic majors , numerous concentrations , academic institutes , and special programs are offered . These include the Environmental Institute , Fritz Shurmur Education Institute , the Gerald R. Ford Institute for Public Policy and Service , the Carl A. Gerstacker Institute for Professional Management , the Prentiss M. Brown Honors Institute , and pre - professional programs in engineering , medicine , and law . The Albion College student body is composed of approximately 1,970 students . The student to faculty ratio is 14:1 . The average class size of 19 is comparable to other small liberal arts colleges . Albion College employs more than 130 full time faculty , of whom more than 95 % have earned the highest degree offered in their field . Albion College offers many opportunities for students to travel and study at other institutions . Programs are offered in Philadelphia , Chicago , London , Heidelberg , Tuebingen , Tokyo , Japan , Seoul , 