Albright College is a private , co - ed , liberal arts college affiliated with the United Methodist Church . It was founded in 1856 and is located in Reading , Pennsylvania . Albright College is a nationally ranked , private college that offers a liberal arts curriculum with an interdisciplinary focus . Albright College is accredited by the Middle States Association , and offers Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degrees , as well as a Master of Arts and Master of Science degrees in education . The college also offers accelerated degree programs . With a student / faculty ratio of 14:1 , Albright College enrolls some 1,625 undergraduates in traditional programs , some 500 students in accelerated degree programs in nine locations and 100 students in the master’s program in education . Albright’s hallmarks are connecting fields of learning , collaborative teaching and learning , and a flexible curriculum that allows students to create an individualized education . Fifty - eight percent of the Class of 2005 graduated with a dual , combined or interdisciplinary concentration . In 2005 , students had more than 200 unique combinations of concentrations . Albright College athletic teams compete in the MAC Commonwealth League . Albright created the first undergraduate psychobiology program in the nation in the 1960s . The college also created the first undergraduate biochemistry program in the region . The decades since have seen the creation of interdisciplinary programs such as child and family studies , environmental studies , optical physics ( the only such program nationwide at a small college ) , and three Johnson Centers for Interdisciplinary Studies . In addition to 11 interdisciplinary areas of concentration such as psychobiology , biochemistry , crime & justice , and Latin American studies , students have the option of pairing any combination of concentrations . The year 2006 marks the 150th anniversary of the founding of Albright College . The College dates its beginning to the founding of Union Seminary in 1856 . The present Albright College was formed by a series of mergers with other institutions of higher learning founded in the 19th century by the Evangelical Association and the United Evangelical Church . Union and Schuylkill Seminaries were not theological seminaries , but three - year collegiate institutes . Albright Collegiate Institute was founded in 1895 , and became Albright College in 1898 . Union Seminary , founded in 1856 and rechartered as Central Pennsylvania College in 1887 , merged with Albright College in 1902 . Schuylkill Seminary , founded in 1881 , became Schuylkill College in 1923 and merged with Albright College in 1928 . Jacob Albright , after whom the College is named , was a Pennsylvania German evangelical preacher and the founder of the Evangelical Association ( later the Evangelical United Brethren Church ) . Born in 1759 as Johannes Jacob Albrecht , his family changed their name to Albright . Albright College is affiliated with the United Methodist Church . The beliefs of the Evangelical Association and the Methodist Church were closely related . In 1968 the Evangelical United Brethren Church and the Methodist Church merged to become the United Methodist Church . 