Alcorn State University , located near Lorman , Mississippi , United States , is a public land grant university . It was founded in 1871 as the nation 's first state - supported higher education institution for blacks . Alcorn State University is a member school of the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund . Alcorn State University was founded on the site originally occupied by Oakland College , a school for whites established by the Presbyterian Church . Oakland College closed its doors at the beginning of the Civil War so that its students could answer the call to arms . Upon failing to reopen at the end of the war , the property was sold to the state of Mississippi and renamed Alcorn University in honor of James L. Alcorn in 1871 , then governor of the state of Mississippi . The college opened with eight faculty members and 179 students in three buildings on a 225 acre campus . Hiram R. Revels resigned his seat in the United States Senate to become Alcorn 's first president . The state legislature provided $50,000 in cash for ten successive years for the establishment and overall operations of the college . The state also granted Alcorn three - fifths of the proceeds earned from the sale of thirty thousand acres of land scrip for agricultural colleges . The land was sold for $188,928 with Alcorn receiving a share of $113,400 . This money was to be used solely for the agricultural and mechanical components of the college . From its beginning , Alcorn State University was a land - grant college . In 1878 , the name Alcorn University was changed to Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College . The goals for the college set by the Mississippi legislature clearly emphasized training rather than education . The school , like other black schools during these years , was less a college than a trade school . At first the school was exclusively for black males but in 1895 women were admitted . In 1974 Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College became Alcorn State University . Governor William L. Waller signed House Bill 298 granting university status to Alcorn and the other state supported colleges . Alcorn has had sixteen presidents . Dr. Malvin Williams was named Alcorn 's interim president after Bristow 's death . Of these , Dr. Walter Washington , who assumed the presidency in 1969 , was the longest - tenured president in Alcorn 's history.On March 27 , 2007 , the Mississippi Institution of Higher Learning named George E. Ross Ph.D. , CPA , Vice President of Finance and Adminstrative Services at Central Michigan University as a possible candidate for the presidency . Alcorn officially named Ross as its seventeenth president on April 3 , 2007 . Dr. Ross was diagnosed in May 2007 with acute leukemia and is being treated at University Hospital in Ann Arbor , Michigan . The university enrolls over 3,200 full - time and 220 part - time undergraduate students and 175 graduate students . Women outnumber men in a ratio 3:2 . The university is made up of seven schools , offering over 50 different fields of study . Bachelor of Applied Science Education : Agricultural Education Endorsement . The main campus is located near Lorman , Mississippi , while the Nursing School and the Business School 's Master of Business Administration ( MBA ) program is located in Natchez , Mississippi . There is also a Vicksburg , Mississippi site . 