Aerial view of Alfred State College taken in April 2006 . Alfred State College is a State University of New York College of Technology located in Alfred , New York in Allegany County . This college , formerly the Agricultural and Technical College at Alfred , now grants baccalaureate degrees in 14 areas , associate degrees in nearly 60 areas , as well as a number of certificates ; fully accredited through the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools . Alfred State College is a member of the Rochester Area Colleges consortium along with Alfred University , the University of Rochester , Rochester Institute of Technology , Saint John Fisher College , Roberts Wesleyan College , Nazareth College , Monroe Community College , SUNY Brockport , and SUNY Geneseo . Full - time ( 12 + credit hours ) students may cross - register at Alfred University to supplement their education with classes not offered at Alfred State College at no additional cost . Both Alfred University and Alfred State College have their roots in an early teaching college called the Alfred Select School . This school , under the leadership of the Seventh - Day Baptist church , was visionary in its equal opportunity policy . In 1908 President Boothe C. Davis of Alfred University persuaded the New York State legislature to locate the New York State School of Agriculture at the Alfred University Campus ; the resulting allocation of $75,000 for three buildings , a farm , livestock , and machinery would set the school in motion . In 1941 the school was given Junior College status , and renamed the New York State Agricultural and Technical College at Alfred . In 1948 the enrollment grew to such large numbers that the state government decided to allow it room to expand , moving the school across Main street from Alfred University , where it remains today . In addition to a new campus would come greater autonomy , meaning that Alfred would now have two state - funded schools and one private university . In 2003 , Alfred State College and its neighbor Alfred University entered into merger talks that were eventually abandoned in the face of opposition from students , faculty , and alumni from both institutions , many of whom viewed the missions of the two colleges as largely incongruous . In 1972 two students , Mark O'Meara and Eric " Rick " Vaughn , started a charity festival entitled " Hot Dog Day " . This festival was to be a charity fundraiser for the area and would focus on the hot dog . Now held in the third weekend of April , Hot dog day is a yearly celebration coordinated through both Alfred University and Alfred State College . Alfred State College Student Senate administers over half a million dollars in club and administrative funds through the Student Activity Fee . Student Senate supports , facilitates , and leads its clubs and organizations through an annual Leadership Retreat , weekly leadership seminars , and various special projects . Student Senate General Assembly has voting rights on the board of trustees of the college , known as the College Council , through its College Council Representative . Alfred State College has a long and valued history of fraternities and sororities on campus , starting in 1920 with its first fraternity . Fraternities and Sororities contribute to the campus and community through philanthropic works , charitable contributions , and alumni interest in the college . Pledging is a four week process requiring a minimum of 