Alfred University ( Alfred ) is a small , comprehensive university in the Village of Alfred in western New York State , USA , an hour south of Rochester and two hours southeast of Buffalo . Alfred has an undergraduate population of around 2,000 , and approximately 300 graduate students . Though the institution boasts five separate schools and colleges , the institution 's reputation is grounded in the arts and engineering . On April 14 , 2005 , the University announced it had received a gift of $35 million from alumnus Marlin Miller ' 54 , and his wife , Ginger , to further support arts education . The gift is the largest ever in the university 's history and is one of the largest endowment gifts made to a U.S. institution to support arts education . Ten million dollars is earmarked for a new theatre at the Miller Performing Arts Center , previously funded by the Millers , and $25 million will go towards the endowment . Alfred was founded in 1836 as the Select School by Seventh Day Baptists as a non - sectarian institution . Unusually for the time , the school was co - educational . It was also racially integrated , and enrolled its first African - American student and two Native American students in the 1850s , becoming the second college in the nation to do so . The origin of the name " Alfred " is uncertain . Residents of the town and students at the two schools believe that the town received its name in honor of Alfred the Great , king of the Saxons , although the first documented occurrence of this connection was in 1881 , 73 years after the first record of the name being used . State records which could verify the connection between the Saxon king and the university were lost in a fire in 1911 . Regardless of whether the connection is historically accurate , Alfred University has embraced King Alfred as a symbol of the school 's values , and a statue of the king stands in the center of the campus quad . Alfred is a member of the Rochester Area Colleges consortium along with Alfred State College , the University of Rochester , Rochester Institute of Technology , Saint John Fisher College , Roberts Wesleyan College , Nazareth College , Monroe Community College , SUNY Brockport , and SUNY Geneseo . Alfred University , together with Corning Glass Works and the State of New York created the Ceramic Corridor , a high - tech incubator project designed to take advantage of the emerging ceramics industry and to create new jobs . This unique industrial development program is the only one in the United States concentrating on one single aspect of technology - high - tech ceramics - and it is the only major industrial development project centered in a rural area in the U.S . Alfred University is not to be confused with SUNY College of Technology at Alfred ; each institution is autonomous , and in fact Alfred State College was at one point a school of agriculture administered by Alfred University . Alfred State College gained independence in 1948 when enrollment demanded future growth of both . Students of Alfred University or Alfred State College who are enrolled in at least twelve credit hours at their home institution may cross - register at the other institution at no additional cost . Alfred University offers over 60 majors and areas of concentration at its four colleges and schools . Alfred is 