Allegheny College is a private liberal arts college located in northwestern Pennsylvania which prides itself as being one of the oldest colleges in the United States . Allegheny College places an emphasis on the value of the liberal arts discipline , as reflected in its official description as " a liberal arts college where 2,100 students with unusual combinations of interests , skills and talents excel. " . Its campus is located in Meadville , Pennsylvania , 90 miles north of Pittsburgh , 90 miles east of Cleveland , and 35 miles south of Erie . Founded in April 1815 by the Rev. Timothy Alden , Allegheny is the 32nd oldest college in the nation and the oldest college in continuous existence under the same name west of the Appalachian Mountains . The college has been historically affiliated with the United Methodist Church since 1833 , as a result of the financial support the United Methodist Church provided to sustain the college through a difficult era . Allegheny College is non - sectarian and welcomes members of all faiths , maintaining a policy of non - discrimination . Founded in 1815 , Allegheny College ranks among the oldest 1 % of colleges and universities in the United States . Perhaps as many as 100 colleges were established and failed before the American Civil War . Allegheny 's survival is a testament to the determination and vision of those early pioneers of higher education in America . The July 18,1815 publication of the Crawford County Messenger carries the first official mention of Allegheny College ( then Alleghany College ) in the form of an advertisement by founder Rev. Timothy Alden . The first class ( comprised of four members ) entered the college one year later , on July 4,1816 . Within six years , Alden succeeded in attracting sufficient funds to begin building a campus , having traveled throughout the eastern states seeking support for a planned library and classroom building . In the 1820s , The need of a building to house a library led to the construction of Bentley Hall , today a notable example of early American architecture . Designed by Alden himself , the structure still crowns the hill on which the campus is located . It is named in honor of Dr. William Bentley , who donated his outstanding private library to the College . Following receipt of a charter from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1817 , Alden continued to serve as President until 1831 , when financial and enrollment problems forced his resignation . Over the decades the college has grown in size and significance while still maintaining ties to the community . Today the campus has 33 buildings on a 77 - acre central campus , a 182 - acre outdoor recreational complex , and a 283 - acre nature preserve . As of the 2005 - 2006 academic year , the college 's undergraduate enrollment is approximately 2,100 with an average class size of 16 , representing 49 states and 31 countries . In addition to the programs listed here , Allegheny also offers opportunities for students to design their own majors and minors . Students may also choose to double - major or double - minor if they have sufficient credits . Majors offered at Allegheny consist of Art History , Art and Technology , Studio Art , Biochemistry , Biology , Chemistry , Communication Arts and Theatre , Computer Science , Applied Computing , Economics , English , Environmental Science , Environmental Studies , Geology , Environmental Geology , 