Allegany College of Maryland ( or ACM ) is a two - year public community college located in Cumberland , Maryland . It was previously known as Allegany Community College ( or ACC ) . Allegany College of Maryland began operations in 1961 as " Allegany Community College " in an old public school facility ( the segregationist era all - black Carver Community School ) that had been closed by the Allegany County Board of Education . The College opened with an enrollment of 122 students from Allegany County . In 1969 , the College moved to a new campus consisting of seven buildings on a 330 acre ( 1.3 km² ) tract in suburban Cumberland that was partially funded by the Appalachian Regional Commission . Enrollment reached the 1000 mark in credit programs during the first year on the new campus and community service and continuing education courses and programs began . Since that time , six additional buildings have been added to the Cumberland Campus and two of the original six have been expanded to handle the increased in the number of programs and students . The College opened two Pennsylvania campuses in 1989 ( Somerset County Campus in Somerset , Pennsylvania ) and 1990 ( Bedford County Campus in Everett , Pennsylvania ) . It expanded its Hospitality Management and Culinary Arts programs into the Gateway Center located in downtown Cumberland in 2002 . The College now serves over 4,000 credit students and over 12,000 non - credit students . Over 1,200 of these credit students are served at the Pennsylvania campuses . The College offers over 50 associate degrees , 17 certificates , and 13 letters of recognition . The College 's men 's baseball and basketball teams have been consistently ranked in the top 20 of their respective National Junior College Athletic Association ( NJCAA ) Divisions . The baseball team participated in the NJCAA national tournaments seven times , including a four - year run from 1994 - 1997 . The men 's basketball team has participated in the NJCAA national tournament in 1995 - 96 ( finished 2nd ) , 1997 - 98 , 2000 - 01 ( finished 2nd ) , 2001 - 02 , and 2003 - 04 . The Maryland Higher Education Commission ( MHEC ) oversees and coordinates higher education in the State of Maryland including academic and financial policies at the College . A seven member Board of Trustees , appointed by the Governor of the State of Maryland , governs the College . The College also has an advisory board for each of its two Pennsylvania Campuses - - the Bedford County Campus Advisory Committee and the Somerset County Campus Advisory Committee . The college is a member of the Maryland Association of Community Colleges ( MACC ) . The College is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools . Joe Beimel , Tampa Bay Devil Rays pitcher . Stan Belinda , Pittsburgh Pirates , Kansas City Royals , Boston Red Sox , Cincinnati Reds , and Colorado Rockies pitcher . Steve Francis , Houston Rockets ( all - Star ) , Orlando Magic ( all - star ) , New York Knicks . Drew Hankinson , WWE Professional Wrestler . Steve Kline , Cleveland Indians , Montreal Expos , St. Louis Cardinals , Baltimore Orioles , and San Francisco Giants pitcher . John Kruk , Philadelphia Phillies , San Diego Padres , and Chicago White Sox first - baseman . Eric Mobley , Milwaukee Bucks Center . Scott Seabol , New York 