Alliant International University is an independent , not - for - profit , upper - division university formed in July 2001 as a result of a merger between California School of Professional Psychology ( CSPP ) and United States International University ( USIU ) . Drawing on the legacies of both CSPP and USIU , Alliant continues to be dedicated to multiculturalism and internationalism . The University develops applied social scientists and professionals for practice in a global context . In 2005 , US News & World Reports ranked Alliant International University the most international among national doctoral - intensive universities . Doctoral programs are currently being developed in collaboration with universities in Hong Kong and mainland China in an effort to aide in the advancement of the psychology profession in Asia . In 2006 , the School of Management was named after University professor , Dr. Marshall Goldsmith . The Graduate School of Education , lead by founding Dean Karen Schuster Webb , prepares competent and conscientious educational leaders to promote and empower personal growth , academic success , and professional achievement for all in a global society . The Graduate School of Education accomplishes this by offering candidates exceptional preparation centered on multidisciplinary and holistic approaches to education . GSOE offers graduate degrees in four program areas : TeachersCHOICE credentialing programs ] , Educational Psychology ] , Educational Leadership ] , and Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages ( TESOL ) ] . Within TeachersCHOICE , Alliant offers an academically rigorous teacher credential program called the Early Completion Option where recent graduates or mid - career professionals can earn their teaching credential in nine months while teaching full time . For details , see http : / / teacherschoice.alliant.edu . At Alliant , you can earn your credential and a Master 's or Doctorate degree in School Psychology , Educational Leadership ( Administration ) , or Teaching ( single and multiple subject are offered ) . To have the option to teach world - wide , or to develop cutting edge language programs , among many other options , students can earn their graduate degree or certificate in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages ( TESOL ) . The University is regionally accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Senior Colleges and Universities of the Western Association of Schools and Colleges . All of the Graduate School of Education 's credential programs are accredited by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing ( CCTC ) ] . California Western University was the original name of United States International University ( USIU ) , until the name change in 1968 . The law school retained the name California Western School of Law ( popularly known as California Western or Cal Western ) . California Western was originally chartered in 1924 by Leland Ghent Stanford as a private graduate institution called Balboa Law College , the first law school in San Diego . His brother , Dwight Stanford , served as one of the first deans . Leland Ghent Stanford is not related to the founder of Stanford University , Leland Stanford , though he did earn both his undergraduate and law degrees at Stanford . He also received a M.A. and Ph. D in Government Administration there . Balboa Law College expanded to include undergraduate and other graduate studies and changed its name to Balboa University . The law school was closed in 1946 . In 1955 the License was transferred to Balboa Corporation , to open Balboa University in New Mexico , now school in distant education , 