Alumni Hall is one of the 27 residence halls and one of the 14 male dorms on the campus of the University of Notre Dame . Alumni Hall is located on south quad adjacent to " main circle " as you enter the Notre Dame campus , across from the law school building . Alumni houses 260 undergraduate residents . Alumni Hall was constructed in 1931 at the same time as rival Dillon Hall . At the time , it provided a border for the southern edge of campus . The hall was so named in honor of the University 's loyal alumni and was intended to be a home for alumni returning to campus . Alumni was the first residence hall on campus to have an electric elevator . Its unique architecture includes gargoyles and stone carvings of everything from Madonna and Child ( chapel entrance on north side ) , saints ( Sts . Thomas Aquinas and Boneventure in the courtyard ) , dogs ( Clashmore Mike , one of the original mascots of the football team ) , to Knute Rockne ( east side ) . On the south side of the building , facing South Bend , is a carving of a college graduate known as Joe College who is looking towards leaving college for the real world . The hall 's chapel is dedicated to St. Charles Borromeo , the patron saint of then - president Fr. Charles O'Donnell , CSC . Alumni Hall was renovated in the summer of 2004 . Alumni Hall is the only dorm on campus allowed to have Greek letters . They are Delta - Omega - Gamma which spells out the name of the Alumni mascot . They are allowed to display their letters at least three times a year . First , during orientation , secondly , during Alumni / Dillon Rivalry Week , and during Alumni 's secretive Wake Week . Fr. George Rozum , CSC , a Holy Cross priest ordained in 1968 , became rector of Alumni Hall in 1979 . Father George received his bachelor degree in Philosophy from the University of Notre Dame , an M.A. in Theology from Holy Cross College of Washington , D.C. , and an M.S.A. from the University of Notre Dame . Prior to coming to Alumni Hall , he served as an associate pastor of St. Ignatius , Martyr , Parish in Austin , Texas , where he also served as chaplain to the Texas State School for the Deaf . Father George holds a National Certificate for Teaching the Deaf from the University of Texas , Austin . Among the distinguished former residents of Alumni Hall are President Reagan 's secretary of agriculture , Richard Lyng ' 40 , the president of John Cabot University , James Creagan ' 62 , the president of Emerson Electric , James Berge ' 69 , Jerome Bettis of the Pittsburgh Steelers 2006 NFL Championship team , former Notre Dame football players Tom Zbikowski , and Chicago Cubs ' pitcher Jeff Samardzija . Father William Beauchamp , C.S.C. , president of the University of Portland and former Executive Vice President of Notre Dame , lived in Alumni from 1981 until 2002 . 