Computer University ( AMACU ) is a university located in Project 8 , Quezon City , Philippines . It focuses mainly on electronic , information , and communication technologies . It is one of the brands of the AMA Education Group . It uses a trimestral calendar where a typical four year collegiate education program under a semestral calendar is completed in only 3 years and 3 months . The AMA Education Group is considered as one of the fastest growing educational institutions in the Philippines with an annual completion rate of 3000 - 4000 graduates . However this institution is also one of the lowest in terms of student loyalty with less than 100 participants attending the alumni homecoming and other extra - curricular programs . AMA Computer University was founded by Dr. Amable R. Aguiluz V , who named it after his father , Amable M. Aguiluz , Sr. Dr. Aguiluz resolved to educate the computer market based on his experience in computer sales . Aguiluz founded the AMA Institute of Computer Studies with first computer school along Shaw Boulevard on October 20 , 1980 . At that time , AMA Institute of Computer Studies offered short - term courses in Electronic Data Processing Fundamentals , Basic Programming , and Technology Career . Only 13 students enrolled at the AMA Institute of Computer Studies during the first semester . AMA Computer College came into existence in June 1981 . It extended its services through a four - year Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science . With only a handful of students in its first year of administration , the AMACC student population rose dramatically from 600 in 1983 to 2,000 in 1985 in its first official campus in Makati City . Shortly after , it established its main campus in Quezon City . Two provincial campuses were then founded in Cebu and Silicon Gulf , Davao . With the passage of the Philippine Higher Education Act of 1994 , privately controlled educational institutions ' academic fees were deregulated . AMA solved the problem of low student population by embarking on an aggressive marketing , advertising and information campaign . With this type of strategy , profit - oriented schools started to grow . The emergence of AMACC also led to the birth of AMA Computer Learning Center ( ACLC ) in 1986 and AMA Telecommunication & Electronic Learning Center in 1996 . The former engages in offering short - course programs for professionals and two - year technical / vocational courses for those who wish to acquire employment skills . The latter is the one of the first schools in the Philippines to concentrate on telecommunication , electronics , and related technology . AMA has adopted a principle of being the first to do things . It was the first school in the country to fully integrate Internet in its curriculum . Internet services were provided to all its campuses . Since 1987 , all major AMA colleges have been interconnected through a local area network ( LAN ) , which virtually converted them into one nationwide school system . AMA is also the first and only school in the country to have successfully held a teleconference between its high school students and another high school class in Canada in 1994 . In 1991 , Aguiluz was able to gain full accreditation for AMA Computer College in the American League of Colleges and Universities ( ALOCU ) , thus , making AMA the first Filipino and non - American school to be so honored . Moreover , 