Amarillo College is a two - year fully accredited community college in Amarillo , Texas with over 10,000 students that was established in 1929 as Amarillo Junior College . Amarillo College has a total of six campuses as of October 2005 . Prior to 1929 , Amarillo was the largest Texas city without a public college . George Ordway and James Guleke helped to introduce a house bill that would establish junior college districts in the Amarillo area . On July 16 , 1929 , Amarillo College became the first Texas junior college district to be organized independent of a school district . The first classes were held later that year in September . The college moved to its main campus on Washington Street in 1937 . In 1951 , Amarillo College became the first publicly supported Texas college to admit blacks to undergraduate classes . Amarillo College is one of the few community colleges in Texas without an athletic program . The clock tower at the Amarillo College 's Washington Street campus . The college 's main and original campus is located near downtown Amarillo . As of 2005 , the campus expands to nearly 31 acres with 17 buildings . It has its own radio and television studios which is home to the Texas Panhandle region 's PBS member station , KACV - TV . The Amarillo Art Center is also located in this campus , opened in 1972 , is a building complex with an art museum and concert hall . The West Campus was opened in 1966 in response to growing demand for allied health and occupational technology programs . The campus houses fifteen allied health programs that includes Associate Degree Nursing , Dentist Aide , Dental Hygiene , Emergency Medical Services Professions ( Paramedics and Emergency Medical Technologists ) , Licensed Vocational Nursing , Medical Data Specialist , Medical Laboratory Technology , Nuclear Medicine Technology , Occupational Therapy Assistant , Physical Therapy Assisting , Pharmacy Technology , Radiography , Radiation Therapy , Respiratory Care and Surgical Technology . The campus is located near Amarillo 's hospital district . The campus is located in downtown Amarillo . In 1977 , Amarillo College leased two gyms from the Amarillo Senior Citizens Association ( ASCA ) , formerly of Amarillo High School and Elizabeth Nixson Junior High School . In 1996 , the old Amarillo High School gymnasium was transformed into Business & Industry Center which houses an auditorium , an exhibit hall and classrooms for seminars , short courses , and computer training . The facility is used to workforce training for business and industry . The Amarillo Museum of Art at the Washington Street Campus . In 1995 , the Texas state legislature created Amarillo Technical Center after transferring Texas State Technical College 's Amarillo facility to Amarillo College . In 2002 , the campus was renamed Amarillo College East Campus . The campus offers technology courses in Auto Collision , Automotive , Aviation Maintenance , Diesel Mechanics , Electronics , Fire Protection , Industrial Maintenance , Instrument and Control , and Safety and Environmental . In 2000 , Amarillo College started operating a campus outside of Amarillo in Dumas , Texas . The college opened a sixth campus in Hereford , Texas on August 29 , 2005 . Amarillo College from the Handbook of Texas Online . Accessed on October 8 , 2005 . 