The American College of Greece was founded in Smyrna , Asia Minor in 1875 and is the considered to be the largest American - sponsored educational institution outside the United States and the largest private institute of tertiary education in Greece , although officially it is not recognized by the state as a university due to the Greek Constitution 's reference to the public character of education . Founded in 1875 by American Christian missionaries as a primary and secondary school for girls in Smyrna , Asia Minor . The first baccalaurate degrees were awarded in 1969 . Today it has 5 divisions : Pierce College , Deree College , Junior College , the Graduate School and the School for Continuing and Professional Studies . The first division of the college was founded in Smyrna ( today Izmir ) in Asia Minor in 1875 as a school for girls . It was relocated to Hellenikon , Athens after the catastrophe of 1922 by invitation of Eleftherios Venizelos , then Prime Minister of Greece . During World War II the College premises were used as a hospital and through German occupation the school continued to operate in an underground manner using the homes of pupils and instructors as classrooms . After the War the College returned to Hellenikon , where it remained until it moved to its new campus in Aghia Paraskevi . Today Pierce College operates a Gymnasium and a Lyceum , equivalent to the Greek public schooling system , and has 36 classes of 25 - 30 pupils each . Furthermore , Pierce annually hosts an event called " Open House " , during which people from outside the school can attend its grounds and enjoy the different activities going on , like a " Talent Show " or a concert . This Year 's ( 2007 ) Open House will be held at the 28th of April . The undergraduate division of the college was renamed Deree College in 1973 in honour of a generous benefactor from Chicago , William S. Deree ( born Derehanis in Greece ) . Deree College is an American - sponsored , independent , coeducational , nonsectarian , and nonprofit educational institution accredited in the United States . It is not recognized by the Greek authorities , however by virtue of its accreditation by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges ( NEASC ) its degree is recognized worldwide as equivalent to those provided by American universities . Moreover , the degree enjoys great acceptance within the job market and the College has been able to provide student visas for foreigners . Today , it has two campuses both located in Athens , Greece . There are two schools : School of Arts and Sciences , and School of Business Administration . This division offers Associate Degrees in Arts and Business through 2 - year programs that may lead to the continuation of the student 's studies at Deree College . The newest educational venture of the College . It offers Master 's in Business Administration , Accounting & Finance , Economics and Psychology , accredited by NEASC through Deree College . This European university , college or other education institution article is a stub . 