The American University in Cairo ( AUC ) provides high quality educational opportunities to students from all segments of Egyptian society , as well as from other countries , and contributes to Egypt 's cultural and intellectual life . The university offers programs at the undergraduate , graduate and professional levels , as well as an extensive continuing education program . The language of instruction is English . The university advances the ideals of American liberal arts and professional education and of life - long learning . As freedom of academic expression is fundamental to this effort , AUC encourages the free exchange of ideas and promotes open and on - going interaction with scholarly institutions throughout Egypt and other parts of the world . The American University in Cairo was founded in 1919 by Americans devoted to education and service in the Middle East . For its first 27 years the university was shaped by its founding president , Dr. Charles A. Watson . He wanted to create an English - language university based on high standards of conduct and scholarship and to contribute to intellectual growth , discipline , and character of the future leaders of Egypt and the region . He also believed that such a university would greatly improve America 's understanding of the area . Initially , AUC was intended to be both a preparatory school and a university . The preparatory school opened on October 5 , 1920 , with 142 students in two classes that were equivalent to the last two years of an American high school . The first diplomas issued were junior college - level certificates given to 20 students in 1923 . At first an institution only for males , the university enrolled its first female student in 1928 , the same year in which the first university class graduated with two B.A. 's and one B.S. degrees awarded . Master 's degrees were first offered in 1950 . Originally AUC offered instruction in the arts and sciences and in education . In 1921 , the School of Oriental Studies was added to the university , followed in 1924 by the Division of Extension . This division was later renamed the Division of Public Service , and finally evolved into the Center for Adult and Continuing Education . AUC 's high school division , known as the Lincoln School , was discontinued in 1951 . In 1956 , the School of Oriental Studies was incorporated into the Faculty of Arts and Sciences as the Center for Arabic Studies . The English Language Institute was added the same year . After the Faculty of Education was discontinued in 1961 and degree offerings were dropped from the Division of Public Service , university degree work was consolidated into a single academic structure , the Faculty of Arts and Sciences . Programs in sociology , anthropology , political science and economics were added to the curriculum and the natural science offerings were significantly expanded . Two applied research units , the Social Research Center and the Desert Development Center , were established in 1953 and 1979 , respectively . Another landmark in the history of the university was the development of professional programs : the departments of Engineering , Computer Science , Journalism and Mass Communication , and Management now offer several degree programs at the Bachelor 's and Master 's levels . In 1960 , AUC enrolled approximately 400 academic students . By 1969 the university had more than tripled its degree enrollments to over 1,300 students , 450 of whom were 