The American University of Paris is an accredited , independent , private liberal arts and sciences institution in Paris , France . Founded in 1962 , AUP is the oldest American institution of higher learning in Europe for Undergraduate and Graduate Programs . The university 's campus consists of six buildings , located in the seventh arrondissement of Paris , on the Left Bank , near the Eiffel Tower and the Seine . The school 's primary language of instruction is English , although some courses are taught in French and required to graduate . The university offers both graduate and undergraduate programs . AUP has 44 full - time professors as well as 61 part - time professors . Approximately 80 % of the full - time faculty members hold a doctoral degree from institutions such as Harvard , Columbia , NYU , Johns Hopkins University , Université de Paris , Sorbonne and Yale , among others . AUP faculty members represent 15 nationalities ; all are at least bilingual . With its enrolment of around 1,000 students , there are roughly twenty students per full - time faculty member . AUP 's student body represents nearly 100 nationalities . The university offers 14 majors and 28 minors in its undergraduate program , along with a courses covering a wide array of other liberal arts offerings , including anthropology , astronomy , biology , drama , fine arts , gender studies , mathematics , music , physics , sociology , and languages , including German , Italian , and Spanish . Master of Arts in Middle East and Islamic Studies . The university 's language of instruction is English . The American University of Paris is accredited in the United States by the Commission on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools . For legal purposes , the university is incorporated as a non - profit educational institution , under the laws of the State of Delaware , and is licensed by the State Board of Education as a Delaware institution of higher education . The American University of Paris is registered in the United States as a 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) not - for - profit organization . The university 's Institut de Commerce International et des Sciences de l'Information ( ICISI ) , which includes the Departments of International Business Administration , International Economics , Computer Science , Mathematics , and Science , is recognized by the French Ministry of Education as an Etablissement d’enseignement technique privé . Michael J. Varhola , ' 90 , American author and publisher . Notably , Dan Brown featured the university in his novel The Da Vinci Code . The university and its campus were the location for a lecture on symbolism , by lead character Robert Langdon . 