The American University of Rome is the oldest degree - granting American university in Rome . The school was founded in 1969 , and has an undergraduate enrollment of 550 . The American University of Rome ( AUR ) is a private , independent American institution of higher education in Rome , Italy , offering liberal studies and professional courses in an international environment that promotes cross cultural understanding . The University offers American degree programs primarily to undergraduate students . It also serves study abroad students , graduate students pursuing their degrees at other universities , and people interested in ongoing professional development and liberal studies . Founded in 1969 , The American University of Rome is the oldest degree - granting American university in Rome . AUR is a coeducational university offering undergraduate degrees in six disciplines with student body of 515 students per semester ( Spring ‘05 ) . AUR is accredited by the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools ( ACICS ) in the United States and is licensed by the Education Licensure Commission of the District of Columbia ( Washington , DC , USA ) . AUR is incorporated in the District of Columbia as a nonprofit corporation . The University is located in a prestigious area of Rome on the Janiculum , Rome 's highest hill , just a few minutes walk from the historical Trastevere district . The neighborhood surrounding AUR offers a full range of amenities , including restaurants , shops , cafés and outdoor markets . Several bus lines connect it to the center of Rome . The American University of Rome offers a strong undergraduate curriculum with an international perspective . The Associate of Arts degree is offered in Liberal Arts and International Business . The Bachelor of Arts degree is awarded in Art History , Communication , Interdisciplinary Studies , International Relations , and Italian Studies . A Bachelor of Science degree is awarded in Business Administration . The University also offers a study abroad program for students studying at other universities . All students must satisfy a general education requirement , of 42 credits , of which six may be also used towards a minor . Consistent with the mission of the University , the program aims to develop important skills , address social issues of diversity , multiculturalism and ethics , as well as to draw on the rich resources of the city of Rome as a learning tool . All students , regardless of major , should share a common dialogue . A student normally takes five courses ( 15 semester hours ) each semester . A student is considered a sophomore after having completed 30 hours of credit , a junior once he or she has completed 60 hours of credit and officially declares a major field of study or enrolls in a degree program , and a senior after having completed 90 hours of course work . One semester credit hour equals , at a minimum , 15 classroom contact hours of lectures , 30 hours of laboratory , and 45 hours of practicum . Internships also carry three semester credits and require 135 hours of practicum , as well as an on - site supervisor and a faculty member as project sponsor . An internship requires a daily log of activities . The American University of Rome possesses a specialized library of course - related books and periodicals . The American University of Rome also provides electronic library services to its students and faculty . These holdings are supplemented by a number 