Amherst College is a private liberal arts college in Amherst , Massachusetts , USA . It is the third oldest college in Massachusetts . It has been coeducational since 1975 . Founded in 1821 , Amherst College was intended to be a successor to Williams College , which was then struggling to stay open ; and Amherst Academy , a secondary school which educated , among others , Emily Dickinson . Noah Webster , an attorney who had moved to the town of Amherst to escape the high cost of living in Connecticut , was recruited for the college 's first board of trustees ; a statue in his honor stands on the campus . Amherst Academy and Amherst College were both named for the town of Amherst , which in turn was named for Jeffery Amherst , 1st Baron Amherst , commanding general of British forces in North America during the French and Indian War. Lord Amherst is now notorious for his comments , in a letter to a peer , about spreading smallpox - infected blankets among Native Americans . Because the college takes its name from the town , it also inherits the local pronunciation ( " am - erst " ) , in which the " h " is silent . Funds were raised for the Academy in 1812 , and the Academy went into operation in December 1814 . On November 18 , 1817 , a project was adopted at the Academy to raise funds for the free instruction of " indigent young men of promising talents and hopeful piety , who shall manifest a desire to obtain a liberal education with a sole view to the Christian ministry. " . This required a substantial investment from benefactors . During the fundraising for the project , it became clear that without larger designs , it would be impossible to raise sufficient funds . This led the committee overseeing the project to conclude that a new institution should be created . On August 18 , 1818 , the Amherst Academy board of trustees accepted this conclusion and began building a new college . As early as 1815 , six years before the opening of Amherst College , the question of removing Williams College to some more central part of Massachusetts was agitated among its friends and in its board of trustees . At that time Williams College had two buildings and fifty - eight students , with two professors and two tutors . The library contained fourteen hundred volumes . The funds were reduced and the income fell short of the expenditures . Many of the friends and supporters of the college were fully persuaded that it could not be sustained in its present location . The motion was adopted , and at the next meeting of the board in September , the committee reported that " a removal of Williams College from Williamstown is inexpedient at the present time , and under existing circumstances. " But the question of removal thus raised in the board of trustees and thus negatived only " at the present time and under existing circumstances , " continued to be agitated . And at a meeting on the 10th of November , 1818 , influenced more or less doubtless by the action of the Franklin County Association of Congregational Ministers , and the Convention of Congregational and Presbyterian Ministers in Amherst , the board of trustees resolved that it was expedient to remove the college on certain conditions . President Moore advocated the removal , and even expressed his purpose 