Anadolu University ( Turkish : Anadolu Üniversitesi ) is a public university in Eskişehir , Turkey and the fourth largest university in the world by enrollment . Anadolu University was created in 1982 from the union of four existing higher education institutes in Eskişehir : the Academy of Economics and Commercial Sciences of Eskişehir , the State Academy of Architecture and Engineering , the Institute of Education , and a medical school . As the Academy of Economics and Commercial Sciences was founded earliest ( in 1958 ) , Anadolu University has adopted that year as their date of establishment . Most of Anadolu University 's faculties and schools , including the Open Education Faculty , are located at the Yunesemre Campus in the centre of Eskişehir . The Yunesemre Campus also contains student housing , Anadolu 's university hospital , and most of the university 's administration buildings . Ikieylul Campus , just outside Eskişehir 's city centre , houses the School of Physical Education and Sports , the Faculty of Engineering and Architecture , and the School of Civil Aviation , along with the associated Anadolu University Airport . In addition to these two campuses , the Porsuk Vocational School is located seperately in Eskişehir , and the Bilecik and Bozüyük Vocational Schools are both located in the town of Bilecik . The Higher Education Act of 1981 nominated Anadolu University as the national provider of distance education ( which it calls open education ) , upon which it has placed strong emphasis since its creation in 1982 . The university 's goal is to educate Turks who live in rural areas and others " who do not have the time or resources to enroll in conventional schools. " . Programs offered via distance education include 4 - year Bachelor of Arts ( B.A. ) degrees in Economics and in Business Administration and nineteen 2 - year associate degrees in a variety of fields . Anadolu University has received a mandate from the Turkish Ministry of Education to educate Turkey 's preschool and English language teachers and does so by distance education , though students in the latter program are also required to take two years of in - person classes . Courses are delivered by a variety of methods , including pre - recorded television and radio broadcasts , videoconferences , and via internet . Students can also access academic counseling or attend optional evening classes at some of the Anadolu University bureaus located throughout Turkey . Chronicle of Higher Education . Open Learning : The Journal of Open and Distance Learning . 21 ( 3 ) : 222 . 