Anderson University , located in Anderson , Indiana , was established in 1917 as the Anderson Bible Training School by the Church of God movement . It later changed its name to Anderson College and , ultimately , Anderson University . University is a member of the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities , and the Independent Colleges of Indiana society . Byrum Hall - performing arts center for the theatre department ( of the School of Communication ) and for the Boze Lyric Theatre Company ( part of the School of Music ) . House size : 550 seats . Decker Hall - The main administrative building , as well as offices for many departments . Hartung Hall - The main science building which is also home to several departments , including Religious Studies and Nursing . Kardatzke Wellness Center - A 17.4 million dollar , 132,000 square foot athletic complex . It houses O.C. Lewis Gymnasium , Bennett Natatorium , a 200 - meter , regulation indoor running track , an upper - level running track , weight room , cardiovascular exercise room , the Athletic department , the state - of - the - art Sports Medicine Center , the Department of Kinesiology , and coaches offices . Krannert Fine Arts Building - The home to the Department of Art & Design , as well as the Department of Music . Hardacre Hall - The home of the Falls School of Business , Campus Security , and the School of Adult Education . Reardon Auditorium - 2200 seat auditorium for many musical and theatrical performances each year . Built in 1983 . Warner Auditorium - Used for graduation and the annual Church of God Convention . Was listed in the Guinness Book of World Records in 1962 as being the largest cement domed building in the world , until the Houston Astrodome was built three years later . Demolished in November 2006 . Mansfield Apartments - Upperclassmen apartment complex . South Campus Apartments - Upperclassmen housing . Tara East Apartments - Upperclassmen housing . Fair Commons - A new ( as of 2005 ) suite - style apartment complex for upperclassmen . York Seminary Village - Campus apartments for graduate seminary students . The Anderson University Ravens compete in NCAA Division III athletics in the Heartland Collegiate Athletic Conference . Men 's sports offered at Anderson University include football , basketball , baseball , tennis , golf , soccer , cross country , and track & field . Women 's sports offered at Anderson University include basketball , softball , tennis , volleyball , soccer , golf , cross country , and track & field . The university also has a very notable men 's club rugby team . Anderson University was founded by and is supported by the Church of God , with headquarters in Anderson , IN. Founded in 1917 , the school was a major step in the life of a young and vigorous fellowship of Christians which had originated about 1880 . This fellowship , which took on a common New Testament name , often describes itself as a reformation movement . Its vision was to preach and live out a message of holiness and to invite believers into a body united by a common experience in the saving grace of Jesus Christ . Church of God MovementThe message of the church was firmly planted in the mainstream of Christian theology . The quest of this young movement was freedom from what it saw as artificial limitations of church structures and authoritative systems 