Andhra University ( Telugu - ఆంధ్రా యూనివర్శిటి ) is located in Visakhapatnam , North East Coastal Andhra Pradesh . It is one of the older premier universities in India with a broad focus . It was established in 1925 and shared affiliating responsibilities with Madras University in the initial years . It was headed by Dr. Cattamanchi Ramalinga Reddy as the Vice - Chancellor from 1926 to 1931 and in a further second term from 1936 to 1949 . It was headed by Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan in the interim period from 1931 to 1936 . Admissions to various Postgraduate courses offered by Andhra University will be generally held through the Andhra University Common Entrance Examination . Presently the University is catering the educational needs of five districts in Andhra Pradesh , namely Visakhapatnam , East Godavari , West Godavari , Vizianagaram and Srikakulam . The University contains two sections , the South Campus and North Campus . The South Campus houses the Arts , Humanities and Sciences departments along with the administrative block . The North Campus ( established in 1962 ) , comprises the Engineering College . The University has four constituent colleges . The College of Arts and Commerce is the biggest constituent College in the University with 28 Departments offering 55 courses . The College of Science and Technology has 19 Departments , which offers 44 courses . The College of Engineering has 16 Departments involving in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Programmes . The College of Law has been identified as an advanced center in Law by University Grants Commission . The University has a School of Distance Education ( started 1972 ) . The School has 32 study centers across the State and a study center at New Delhi . The University campus has 19 hostels for men and 4 hostels exclusively for women that accommodate more than 4,300 students . Residential accommodation of 340 units of staff quarters is available on the university campus . The university also has three Health Centres , a homeopathy dispensary , three guest houses , a faculty club , an open air theatre and a campus school for the children of university staff . It has established campuses outside Visakhapatnam to meet demand for post - graduate education . Campuses are located in Etcherla , Srikakulam district , Kakinada , East Godavari district , Tadepalligudem , West Godavari district and Vizianagaram . University has produced many research scholars and doctorates . It is one of the top univerities in the South India . There are 575 affiliated colleges spread across five districts under the territorial jurisdiction of Andhra University . The enrolment in Undergraduate courses is more than 76,000 and in PG Courses more than 20,000 students . The University is supported by about 860 teachers and more than 2500 non - teaching and technical staff . Andhra University is the first university in India to offer an MBA programme from 1957 . This Indian university , college or other educational institution - related article is a stub . 