Andhra Christian Theological College ( ACTC ) is an ecumenical enterprise of the mainline Churches in Andhra Pradesh in India . It was established in the year 1964 and is affiliated to the Senate of Serampore College ( University ) . ACTC is situated on the banks of Hussain Sagar excess water canal ( north ) in Gandhinagar , Hyderabad , Andhra Pradesh . Verse XII of Chapter IV of Ephesians found in the Holy Bible - King James Version - " For the perfecting of the saints , for the work of the ministry , for the edifying of the body of Christ " : is the force behind this ecumenical enterprise . In the Latin Vulgate , it is said thus , ad consummationem sanctorum in opus ministerii in aedificationem corporis christi . The College is affiliated to the Senate of Serampore College ( University ) which was established in the year 1818 by a Danish Charter and later ratified by the Legislature of Bengal when Serampore was handed over to the British from the Danes by passing of The Serampore College Act , 1918 . It was the first institution to be given the status of a university in India . The National Assessment and Accreditation Council ( NAAC ) , Bangalore , an autonomous body under the University Grants Commission ( UGC ) in its visit to Serampore in 2004 also makes mention of the University status of the Senate of Serampore College ( University ) and its power in conferring degrees . Missionaries in Andhra Pradesh were involved in spreading the Word of God . With a sizeable converts at hand the need for ministering them was possible only with Priests . With this , they started to open seminaries . The missionaries were careful not to encroach into others territories while ministering - they created comities for this purpose . Seminaries were established in Dornakal ( Andhra Union Theological College ) to cater to the Church of South India , Ramapatnam ( Baptist Theological Seminary ) for the American Baptists , Luthergiri . There was exchange of Professors between the Seminaries . However , for higher education ( Bachelor of Divinity ) , they had to send their students to West Bengal where Serampore College is located . The mainline Churches in Andhra Pradesh felt the need for having a unified seminary where higher theological education could be taught . Together , they appointed a Commission under the Chairmanship of M.L.Kretzmann to explore the possibilities of forming such a unified Seminary . After a lot of talks , the Commission came out with a report that was tabled before the mainline Churches . All the mainline Churches except the Mennonite Brethren agreed for the setting up of a unified Seminary . They zeroed - in onto Luthergiri . With this , all higher - educated Theologians taught in the newly set - up College . Lutheran Theological College , Rajahmundry . Later , due to pollution from nearby Paper Mills , they felt the need to relocate . After many deliberations , they chose Secunderabad . By 1973 the college in its entirety was moved from Rajahmundry to Secunderabad . By virtue of postal re - classification in the 1990s , its location fell under Hyderabad . ACTC has a lot of playgrounds including a throwball court , a tennis court , a basketball court , a volleyball court , a table tennis room and a large ground that is used for playing football and cricket . By evening , students could be seen 