Aerial view of Andrews University . Andrews University is a Seventh - day Adventist university in Berrien Springs , Michigan . Originally founded in 1874 as Battle Creek College in Battle Creek , Michigan . It was the first higher education facility started by Seventh - day Adventists , and is today the flagship university of the Seventh - day Adventist school system . Andrews University was founded as a small , Seventh - day Adventist school called Battle Creek College in 1874 . In 1901 , the school moved from Battle Creek , Michigan to its current location in Berrien Springs . It is said that everything the school had was packed up in 16 boxcars and sent on its way . The school was renamed Emmanuel Missionary College , or EMC for short . The school continued to grow slowly through the early 19th century . In the 1940s , Nethery Hall , the current location of the College of Arts and Sciences , was built as the administration building . In 1959 the graduate program and theological seminary of Potomac University were relocated from Washington , D.C. and joined with the school in Berrien Springs . Because of the addition of the graduate programs and the seminary in 1960 , the school was renamed Andrews University in honor of John Nevins Andrews , an Adventist scholar and the first officially sponsored overseas missionary for the Seventh - day Adventist Church . Today the seminary is known as the Seventh - day Adventist Theological Seminary . In 1974 , the undergraduate school was reorganized into the College of Arts and Sciences and the College of Technology . The School of Business was established in 1980 , and the School of Education in 1983 . In 1993 the architecture department was organized into the Division of Architecture , and has since established itself as one of the leading architecture schools of new urbanism in the United States . On Thursday , April 12 2007 , President Niels - Erik Andreasen announced at a special chapel assembly that the university had just received a gift totalling $8.5 million . Andrews University is located next to the Village of Berrien Springs in southwest Michigan . The entire campus is actually located within the Oronoko Charter Township , adjacent to the St. Joseph River and 12 miles away from the shores of Lake Michigan . South Bend , Indiana , home of the University of Notre Dame , is 25 miles away ; thus , several Andrews faculty members hold joint appointments with Notre Dame . The 1,600 - acre campus was originally designated as an arboretum . The campus maintains a variety of indigenous trees , especially around the quad in the center of the campus . The campus is composed of 27 instructional buildings , the Howard Performing Arts Center , an airpark , three single - sex residence halls and four apartment complexes . The three dormitories on campus are Lamson Hall , the women 's hall , Meier Hall , the undergraduate men 's hall , and Burman Hall , primarily for men who are either graduate or seminary students . The residence halls strictly enforce a curfew depending on a student 's age , as well as a visitation policy which does not allow students of the opposite sex in dorm rooms at any time . Students living on - campus are also required to attend a number of worship services . The university is made up of five schools / colleges and one division , offering 