Anhui University of Science and Technology ( AUST , simplified Chinese : 安徽理工大学 ; traditional Chinese : 安徽理工大學 ; pinyin : Ānhuī Lǐgōng Dàxué ) is a comprehensive and harmoniously developing key university of Anhui province , China , consisting of disciplines in engineering , natural sciences , economics sciences , literature , medicine and management sciences . The multi - disciplinary university , with a history of nearly 60 years , was founded in 1945 as the first school of engineering in Anhui Province . It was originally under the auspice of the former state Department of Mining Industry . In July 1998 , the university came to be co - sponsored by both the Central Government and the provincial government , and administered by the latter . It is now listed by Anhui Province as one of the five universities to attach great importance to in their development during the Tenth Five - Year Plan Period . There are 14 departments and schools . They are : Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Engineering , Resources Development and Management Engineering , Civil Engineering , Mechanical Engineering , Electric Engineering , Material Science and Engineering , Chemical Engineering , Computer Science and Technology , Foreign Languages , Mathematics and Physics , Economic Management and Social Sciences , School of Medicines , and School of Advanced Professional Technology Education . Students of the university come from all corners of the country . One among the first couple of institutions of higher learning to offer bachelor and master degrees , the university is now authorized to offer doctorate , master , and bachelor degrees , as well as master degrees to the on - job candidates , and candidates with the same educational level . There are 41 bachelor degree programs , 18 master degree programs , 2 doctorate degree programs and 6 engineering master degree programs . The university includes 6 provincial key disciplines , 1 provincial key laboratory , 2 provincial key demonstration programs . The university attaches great importance to international and domestic academic exchanges and cooperations . Since 1980 , it has established relations with institutions of higher learning , research institution and academic organizations of more than ten countries such as the United States , Great Britain , Australia , Japan , Germany , Russia , Poland and Ukraine . Each year , each party sends teaching and research staff members to the other party to be engaged in teaching and scientific researches . In cooperation with institutions of higher learning of Singapore and Australia , the university begins to run inter - country schools . Simultaneously , the university has established and maintained close relations with more than 100 domestic powerful businesses and research institutions . The university has established a system for the invitation of famous scholars to give lectures to its staff members and students . In recent years , it has invited more than 100 scholars , well - known both at home and abroad , to pay visit to , give lectures and teach in the university , or be engaged in cooperative research work . Of the visitors , more than 40 have been invited as honorable professors or professor on concurrent jobs . In addition , efforts will also be made to train and bring up senior qualified practical , universal and creative talents by means of deepening the reform of education and teaching , improving the education and teaching quality . By 2001 , more than sixty thousand students have graduated from the university . Since 1999 , 