AnimationMentor.com is a character animation trade school with classes being conducted exclusively online . The teachers and most of the faculty are professionals working in feature film , commercial , and video game studios . AnimationMentor.com opened its " doors " in early 2005 after a long period of anticipation by the online animation community . The school is the brainchild of three feature film animators : Bobby Beck ( Pixar ) , Carlos Baena ( Pixar ) , and Shawn Kelly ( ILM ) . These three animators saw a general lack of quality in the reels that were submitted to their respective studios and felt that this lack of quality could be attributed to shortcomings in the education , not the talent , of those individuals making the submissions . The initial format for the school was to be a collection of pre - recorded classes that would accompany various written materials and a few meetings with teachers . This idea eventually evolved into the current format of classes which use a proprietary form of web based video conferencing to allow one - on - one interaction between teachers and students . The inaugural class began courses in February of 2005 . AnimationMentor.com offers a certification in advanced character animation . This certificate is awarded after the successful completion of six separate 12 - week terms . Upon graduation , the successful student will also have a completed short film , various short format exercises , and a strong understanding of the working life of a studio professional . AnimationMentor focuses only on Character animation as it pertains to the entertainment industry . Only the Certification in Advanced Character Animation is offered . The faculty of AnimationMentor is arguably one of its strongest features . The teaching staff consists of professional animators from successful film studios . Studios with participating animators include : PIXAR , Industrial Light and Magic , Lucas Arts Interactive , PDI / Dreamworks , DNA , Sony Pictures Imageworks , Blue Sky , and Will Vinton Studios . The school also hosts notable guest speakers from all over the animation industry . 