Anna University ( Tamil : அண்ணா பல்கலைக்கழகம் ) is one of India 's premier engineering universities . Established in 1978 , it offers higher education in Engineering , Technology and Allied Sciences . Anna University was formed on 4 September 1978 as a unitary type of university . It integrated 4 well - known technical institutions in the city of Chennai ( previously known as Madras ) , the oldest of which was the College of Engineering , Guindy , started in 1794 . Perarignar Anna University of Technology ( PAUT ) was the original name used in 1978 . In 1982 the current name of Anna University was coined removing the words " Perarignar " and " Technology " . In December 2001 , it was converted into an affiliating university , with almost all engineering colleges in the state of Tamil Nadu under its fold and also absorbing all the 6 government engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu as its constituent colleges . It is ranked ninth ( 9th ) by the India Today magazine for the year 2007 in the top 10 engineering colleges in India . It is also ranked tenth ( 10 ) by the Outlook India magazine for the year 2007 in the top 50 government engineering colleges in India . The University 's main campus is situated in the southern part of Chennai and extends over 100 acres ( 400,000 m² ) adjoining the Adyar River and the Raj Bhavan . It contains the College of Engineering , Guindy , the Alagappa College of Technology , and the School of Architecture and Planning . The campus also houses three technical departments of the University of Madras . The Madras Institute Of Technology at Chrompet constitutes the second campus and extends over 200,000 m² . The third campus of the University is located at Taramani near the Instronic campus , Adyar . A recent Bill ( 2007 ) for taking over these 6 constituent colleges back again as government colleges is pending approval . The Anna University Amendment Act of 2001 brought almost all Engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu under the University . This includes 6 Government Engineering colleges , 3 government - aided private institutions , and 225 Self - Financing Colleges . Akkineni Nagarjuna - popular movie actor ( also holds an M.S. from University of Michingan ) . Y Gee Mahendra , Actor . Kutraleeswaran , swam six channels in 1994 and was included in the Guinness Book of World Records . Raghav , " Aye Nee Romba Azhaga Irukka " fame Tamil Music Director . Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam , President of India . Anna University have been split as Anna University Chennai , Anna University Trichy and Anna University Coimbatore from January 2007 . While Dr.D.Viswanathan continues as the vice Chancellor but with limited jurisdiction of Engineering colleges around Chennai only , separate Vice chancellors named below have been appointed for each of the 2 Universities . In the view to improve the quality of education in southern part of Tamil nadu , the government of Tamil nadu has announced to form one more Anna University at Tirunelveli . Perarignar Anna University of Technology ( PAUT ) was the name used from 1978 through 1982 . In 1982 the current name of Anna University was coined primarily removing the prefix " Perarignar " . College of Engineering , Guindy , constituent college of Anna university , is ranked 8th among top engineering colleges in India , only next to the seven IITs . A plethora of controversies have repeatedly been 