Antioch College is a private , independent liberal arts college in Yellow Springs , Ohio , and is the founder of the six campus Antioch University system . While Antioch College continues to offer an experimental eduational program of classroom study , work experiences and community governance many of the innovations Antioch College has spearheaded are now common practice in higher education . On June 24th 2007 , in response to an Antioch Univesity Board of Trustees annoucement of the suspension of Antioch College operatons in 2008 , more than 500 alumni of Antioch College passed a resolution through their alumni association vowing to keep the college open without interruption and collected more than $400,000 towards that purpose . Founded in 1852 by the Christian Connection , the college began operating in 1853 with Horace Mann as its first president . Its current educational approach blends practical work experience with classroom learning and participatory community governance . Antioch College is a member of the Great Lakes Colleges Association , the Eco League , and the North American Alliance for Green Education . On October 5 , 1850 , the General Convention of the Christian Church passed a resolution stating " that our responsibility to the community , and the advancement of our interests as a denomination , demand of us the establishing of a College. " . This resolution was passed unanimously by the 82 delegates , who represented 521 ordained ministers . The delegates further pledged " the sum of one hundred thousand dollars as the standard by which to measure our zeal and our effort in raising the means for establishing the contemplated College. " . The Committee on the Plan for a College was formed to undertake the founding of a college , and make decisions regarding the name of the school , the endowment , fundraising , faculty , and administration . Most notably , the committee decided that the college " shall afford equal privileges to students of both sexes. " . The Christian Connection sect wanted the new college to be sectarian , but the planning committee decided otherwise . Horace Mann , Antioch 's first president , ran the college from its founding in 1853 until his death in 1859 . The young college had relatively high academic standards , and also emphasized good health , co - operation , and sound ethical and moral principles . The first curriculum focused on Latin , Greek , mathematics , history , philosophy and science , and offered electives in art , botany , pedagogy , and modern languages . Tuition was $24 a year , and the first graduating class consisted of 28 students . Although the founders planned for approximately 1,000 students , enrollment only exceeded 500 once in the 19th century , in 1857 . One notable character in Antioch 's history is Rebecca Pennell , who was one of the college 's ten original faculty members . She was the first female college professor in the United States to have the same rank and pay as her male colleagues . Her home , now part of the Antioch campus and called Pennell House , currently serves as community space . In 1859 , Mann gave his final commencement speech , which contained the sentence that has become the college 's motto : " Be ashamed to die until you win some victory for humanity. " . Mann died in August and was initially interred on the Antioch College grounds . The next year , he was reinterred in Providence , Rhode 