Antioch University is a six - campus American university with campuses in four states . An outgrowth of Antioch College in Yellow Springs , Ohio , each of Antioch 's campuses has its own distinct academic programs , community life , and regional identity . Antioch has developed a new Ph.D. program and a growing number of on - line courses . It is founded on principles of rigorous liberal arts education , innovative experiential learning and socially engaged citizenship . Antioch College is the result of American educator Horace Mann 's dream to establish a college comparable to Harvard but with some notable differences . This college was to be completely non - sectarian and co - educational , and with a curriculum that would not only include the traditional treatment of the classics , but would emphasize science and the scientific method , history and modern literature . Students would not compete for grades , but would be encouraged to pursue issues of interest to them , read what they consider worthwhile , and present papers on topics of their own choosing . Founded in 1852 as Antioch College in Yellow Springs , Ohio , Horace Mann was the first president of the College in 1852 . From its inception , racial and sexual equality , independent study and independent thinking were integral parts of Antioch College . Six students were accepted for the first quarter : four men and two women who came to share the same college classrooms for the first time in the U.S. The notion of sexual equality extended also to the faculty . Antioch was the first U.S. college to designate a woman as full professor , and the original faculty included seven men and two women . Then , in 1863 , the college instituted the policy that no applicant was to be rejected on the basis of race . Antioch College has always attracted faculty who were concerned with innovations in education . In the early 1850 's , Rebecca Pennel offered a course on teaching methods which was the first of its kind , while John Burns Weston , class of 1857 , established a long - standing precedent by being both student and faculty simultaneously . He taught Greek language and literature for 20 years and remained a life long student . While Antioch College has never diverged from the philosophy of Horace Mann , the present form of an Antioch education traces its roots to the election of Arthur Morgan as President of the college in 1920 . Morgan , like Mann , believed in the development of the individual as a whole . Having seen the difficulty encountered by ivory - tower academicians attempting to participate in the business world , he resolved to change the cloistered educational experience by providing students with work experience in their field . This was the beginning of Antioch 's unique program of work and study . Morgan initiated the practice of student government . He also changed the nature of the admissions procedure . Rather than relying on entrance examinations , Morgan opted for more personal information on prospective students . In addition , senior exams were graded " honors " or " pass " and students who failed could retake the exam . Morgan remained at Antioch until 1933 , when President Roosevelt requested that he assume directorship of the Tennessee Valley Authority Project . In the early 1960 's , Antioch College extended its special curriculum to students in new settings , by taking over the Putney School 