Antrim Grammar School is the youngest grammar school in Northern Ireland . It is situated in County Antrim , within the North Eastern Education and Library Board ( NEELB ) area . It claims to be one of the most academically successful schools in the province but has not yet achieved the top rank of grammar schools although it has been successful in placing a number of its brightest students in Oxbridge Colleges . Antrim Grammar School was founded in 1974 to address the growing need for a highly skilled labour force in the thriving Antrim area . Headmistress Janet Williamson left in December 2006 after six years of service to the school to become head of Royal Belfast Academical Institution . Former pupil , Stephen Black replaced her as Principal in March 2007 . In 2006 , its Upper - Sixth class achieved a 100 % pass - rate at A - levels . This was one of its most profound years , with the school topping the Northern Ireland average ( 72 % ) , The UK national average ( 63 % ) , with an astounding 95 % . It was one of the highest in the whole of the UK . The school was accredited as an International School by the British Council . Four schools in Northern Ireland were accredited in 2006 although a number of other NI schools had already been accredited over the previous several years . This award is presented to schools for their work in promoting international awareness among students and staff . Like most other grammar schools , the school regularly has Language Weeks where pupils from various cultures teach the rest of the pupils their chosen language . They also take many trips abroad , including trips to Bolivia , Rome , France , and Germany . This work and its continuation helped to secure Antrim Grammar International School accreditation . In September 2001 , after several years of planning and preparation , a £7.5 million refurbishment and rebuilding programme commenced at Antrim Grammar School . The program was completed in January 2004 . There were several phases to the work undertaken by the NEELB , McCombe Brothers , Samuel Stevenson & Sons ; and Williams & Shaw . Thanks to this upgrade , every department now has access to interactive whiteboards and ICT cluster areas , which make the learning experience a lot more enjoyable . The whole school has benefited from the new multi - purpose Learning Resource Centre , with its computing and library facilities . The Lecture Theatre , English and Maths classrooms are equipped with interactive whiteboards and computers . Home Economics and Art enjoy spacious , specialist teaching areas with extra study areas for Sixth Form . The Sixth Form have benefited greatly from the new building programme , with the development of their own common room in addition to private study areas . The original building has been refurbished and modernised , the music department has its own recording studio with specialist equipment and resources . Technology , with three very well equipped workshops , is a show - piece of modern engineering . The Science rooms have been upgraded and computer access is available in every classroom . The learning environment is stimulating , modern and , in a growing number of subject areas , can be described as “State of the Art” . The Sports Centre , opened in Autumn 2003 , with its sports hall and a multi - gym , enhances all of these facilities . The school 