Gakuin University is part of a comprehensive educational institute called Aoyama Gakuin , which includes kindergarten , elementary school , junior / senior high school , and women 's junior college . Although Aoyama Gakuin 's history dates from October 1874 , when missionaries from the Methodist Episcopal Church of the United States established three small schools , the institution took its present form in 1949 when Aoyama Gakuin College was established as a comprehensive university . The university 's undergraduate and graduate programs include " literature " , " law " , " economics " , " business " , " international politics , economics and business " , " science and engineering " . And also the university 's specialised graduate programs that designed to train high level , specialized professionals , include " international management " , " law school " , and " professional accountancy " . Aoyama Gakuin University is part of a comprehensive educational institute called Aoyama Gakuin , which includes kindergarten , elementary school , junior / senior high school , and women 's junior college . At each level , Aoyama Gakuin offers people quality education that is based on our solid academic foundation , which has been continuously enhanced throughout our unique history . Although Aoyama Gakuin 's history dates from October 1874 , when missionaries from the Methodist Episcopal Church of the United States established three small schools , the institution took its present form in 1949 when Aoyama Gakuin College was established as a comprehensive university . The main campus , located in Aoyama in central Tokyo , is complemented by the Sagamihara Campus in Kanagawa Prefecture . The Sagamihara Campus is where freshmen and sophomores study , and also houses the College of Science and Engineering . For Academic Year 2003 ( as of May 1 of 2003 ) , undergraduate student population at AGU is approximately 19,372 . The university has graduated around 155,219 students in all and employs approximately 1,300 full - time and part - time faculty members who offer a wealth of educational and research opportunities . Aoyama Gakuin University is accredited by the Japanese University Association and is a member of the Japan Association of Private College and Universities . As a vibrant educational and research community , our university maintains a number of active international exchange programs for students and faculty . Due to this , Aoyama Gakuin University is well known for its international ambience : many of our students and faculty have attended universities and research institutes abroad , while numerous scholars and students from around the world have studied at our university . 