APIIT , the Asia Pacific Institute of Information Technology , is an educational organisation specializing in providing adult education and training programmes in computing and Information Technology . Formed in 1993 and based originally in Malaysia , APIIT has since established other centres including Pakistan , India , Sri Lanka and Australia . The Institute works in collaboration with selected universities in the United Kingdom and has produced more than 14,000 graduates . APIIT was founded in 1993 as part of an initiative by the Malaysian Government to address the shortage of IT professionals in the country . The newly formed Institute was based in Damansara Heights , Kuala Lumpur , and offered Diploma courses in computing and IT . In the following year , co - operative links were established with Monash University in Australia , leading to the launch of a twinning programme in 1995 for Bachelor 's degrees . This was followed in 1996 by a twinning relationship with Staffordshire University in UK for Master 's degree courses . Expansion led to the opening of the Kuala Lumpur city campus in 1997 , followed by campuses in Karachi , Pakistan ( 1998 ) , Colombo , Sri Lanka ( 2000 ) , Lahore , Pakistan ( 2000 ) and Perth , Australia ( 2004 ) . In 2003 the Malaysian campus moved to new premises at Technology Park Malaysia , where it is now known as APIIT TPM . The curriculum has developed , with the Institute becoming a SUN and Microsoft authorised training centre in 1998 , a SAP University Alliance Partner in 1999 , and a Microsoft Certified Technical Education Centre in 2001 . APIIT gained University College status in 2004 . The Institute and its students have won numerous awards . Courses are run at four levels : foundation , diploma , degree and postgraduate . The one - year foundation programme caters for students who have completed Form 5 studies and prepares them to move into a degree course . Seven MSc programmes are run : in " Software Engineering " , " Technology Management " , " Information Technology Management " , " Multimedia Applications Management " , " Electronic Commerce " , " Mobile Computer Systems " , and " Computing " . The Malaysia campus ( at 03°02′54″N , 101°41′33″E ) is a purpose - built complex in Technology Park Malaysia , about 20km south of Kuala Lumpur centre , close to the suburb of Bukit Jalil and the National Sports Complex . The complex houses lecture rooms , auditoria , a multi - purpose hall , offices , discussion rooms , social space , cafeteria , library , computer labs , and research and development facilities . The library affords access to eJournals and databases , some by arrangement with Staffordshire University . The cafeteria is open to both APIIT students and to employees from other companies in the Technology Park . Student accommodation is available locally in Vista Komanwel Apartments and Arena Green Apartments , and a shuttle bus runs between these and the campus . The campus is close to Bukit Jalil LRT station for trains to the centre of Kuala Lumpur . It has excellent road links , being close to the main North - South Expressway , the Shah Alam Expressway and the Puchong - Sungai Besi Highway . 