The Appalachian School of Law ( ASL ) is a fully - accredited private law school on a four building campus in Grundy , Virginia , a small town near the convergence of Virginia , Kentucky , and West Virginia . The school offers a three - year Juris Doctor degree , and enrolls approximately 370 full - time students . The school is fully accredited by the American Bar Association . ASL is notable for its focus to community service and leadership , emphasizing professional responsibility and alternative dispute resolution in its curriculum and requiring students to complete 25 hours of community service per semester in order to graduate . Each student is also required to complete an externship before graduation . ASL was also the site of a triple homocide that took place on January 16 , 2002 . The Atrium at ASL , circa 2002 . ASL traces its roots back to 1993 when Norton , Virginia lawyer Joe Wolfe came up with the idea to create a law school in Central Appalachia . His idea was well received by local business leaders and a steering committee was founded in 1994 and grew to eighty members . The committee surveyed lawyers and found that legal education needed to emphasize professional responsibility and alternative dispute resolution as these pillars of law school were becoming more important in today 's law practice . The committee gained permission of the Virginia General Assembly to start a law school in 1995 and continued to secure endorsements from local civic associations and industrial development authorities . Buchanan County , Virginia approached the committee in 1996 and offered the grounds and buildings of the former Grundy Elementary and Intermediate Schools to which the steering committee accepted . A $1 million loan ( which was later converted into a grant ) financed the buildings ' renovations . The State Council of Higher Education in Virginia granted the school the ability to enroll students studying for the Juris Doctor Degree in 1997 . The charter class of 71 students first attended classes on August 12 , 1997 . Buchanan County brought ASL to Grundy in order to revitalize a town that had been in a steady economic decline since the town 's Flood of 1977 . ASL has brought a positive economic impact on its home town , including spurring construction of rental homes and the opening of additional businesses in the area . ASL has become a success story for the concept of higher education as an economic development tool . On January 16 , 2002 , ASL Dean Anthony Sutin , Professor Thomas Blackwell , and 1L student Angela Dales were shot and killed by disgruntled student Peter Odighizuwa , 43 , of Nigeria . When Odighizuwa exited the building , he was subdued by two students armed with personal firearms . At trial , Odighizuwa was found mentally competent , pled guilty to the murders to avoid the death penalty , and was sentenced to multiple life terms in prison . According to the Law School Admissions Council 's 2005 profile , ASL 's student body demographic was as follows : 88.5 % Caucasian , 2.5 % African American , 2.5 % Asian American , 0.3 % Mexican American , 0.5 % Puerto Rican , and 0.5 % Hispanic with 5.2 % not reporting . 67.6 % of the student body is male , while 32.4 % of the student body is female . The student to faculty ratio in 2005 was 19.3 to 1 and typical first year class size is 