Appalachian State University is a public university located in Boone , North Carolina and the sixth largest institution in the University of North Carolina system . Appalachian ( pronounced app - uh - LATCH - un ) State is sometimes referred to as AppState , ASU , or simply App . The university has been ranked among the top 15 Southern " Masters Universities " since the U.S. News and World Report 's America 's Best Colleges Guide began publication in 1986 . In 2001 , Appalachian was recognized by TIME Magazine as a College of the Year . Appalachian State University began in the summer of 1899 when a group of citizens of Watauga County , NC , under the leadership of D.D. Dougherty and B.B. Dougherty , began a movement to establish a good school in Boone , NC. Land was donated by D.B. Dougherty , father of the leaders in the enterprise , and by Mr. J.F. Hardin . On this site a wood frame building was erected by contributions from other citizens of Boone and Watauga County . In the fall of 1899 Mr. Dauphin D. Dougherty and Blanford B. Dougherty , acting as co - principals , began the school which was named Watauga Academy . These co - principals operated for four years until the school was made a state institution . In 1903 , after interest in the school had spread to the adjoining counties , Hon . W.C. Newland of Caldwell County introduced a bill in the North Carolina House of the General Assembly to make this a state school , with an appropriation for maintenance and for building . The measure was adopted and passed to the Senate . Captain E.F. Lovill of Watauga , R.B. White of Franklin County , Clyde Hoey of Cleveland County , E. J. Justice of McDowell County spoke in favor of the measure . On March 9th , 1903 , the bill became law , and the Appalachian Training School for Teachers was established . The new trustees met in June 1903 and elected Mr. B.B. Dougherty , Superintendent and D.D. Dougherty , Principal . For twenty - two years there was a period of steady growth , academic development , and valuable service to the State . In 1925 , the Legislature changed the name to the Appalachian State Normal School and appropriated additional funding for maintenance and permanent improvement . Superintendent B.B. Dougherty was elected President , and Principal D.D. Dougherty was elected Business Manager and Treasurer . Following the accession the college property had reached a value of more than $2,000,000 . Dr. B.B. Dougherty was continued as President . Professor D.D. Dougherty was continued as Business Manager and Treasurer , but he did not enjoy the larger institution for long . He died June 10th , 1929 , the very first day of registration for the new college . In 1930 , the first four year class was graduated . That year 158 young men and young women were graduated in June and approximately 80 more graduated at the August Commencement . In 1948 a Graduate School was formed . Enrollment was up to 1,100 students , including 23 graduate students , with 65 faculty . President B.B Dougherty retired after 56 years of serving the school in 1955 . Dr. J.D. Rankin became interim president until Dr. William H. Plemmons was installed . Appalachian offered programs in areas other than teaching in 1965 . This change led to a more appropriate name for the school in 1967 , Appalachian State 