Aquinas Institute of Theology is a Roman Catholic graduate school and seminary founded by the Dominican Order and sponsored by the Province of St. Albert the Great . The school offers a number of graduate degrees , such as a Master of Arts in theology ( MA ) , a Master of Divinity ( M.Div. ) and a Master of Arts in Pastoral Studies ( MAPS ) , as well as some unique programs , including the country 's only Roman Catholic doctoral program in preaching and a Master of Arts in Health Care Mission degree . The school has been in a leader in online theological study , currently offering four separate graduate programs in a blended online / intensive format . In addition to its academic programs Aquinas Institute offers several community programs , including monthly Roundtable and Theology on Tap programs featuring local theologians discussing relevant topics ; a Business Forum for local business leaders to discuss faith - related issues in their professions ; and the Apollos Project , a Lilly Endowment - funded project to identify and train lay ministers in St. Louis area parishes . Aquinas Institute is accredited by the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada . In 1925 , having decided not to expand the House of Studies in Washington , D.C. , the Dominican Order founded a new House of Studies in River Forest , Illinois . The House of Studies remained until 1939 when the Master General of the Order made the college a Studium Generale . He also formally established the Central Province of St. Albert the Great , and the school was intended primarily to prepare the province’s members for priesthood . The Studium Generale operated from 1939 to 1951 . 1961 - The two Dominican colleges , St. Rose of Lima and the Studium Generale , are incorporated as one , the Aquinas Institute of Philosophy and Theology . 1964 - Aquinas Institute is accredited by the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools . 1965 - The Association of Theological Schools of Iowa , the first ecumenical consortia established in the country , is formed . 1967 - The first women students begin their studies . 1968 - Aquinas Institute becomes one of the first five Catholic schools to enter the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada and to be accredited by it . In 1981 Aquinas Institute of Theology moved to St. Louis , Missouri , where it entered into a " Cooperative Project for Theological Education " with Saint Louis University , on whose campus it resided . During that time the school inaugurated the Great Preacher Award ( awarded to an outstanding homilist in the St. Louis area ) , the Catherine of Siena Excellence in Ministry Award ( awarded to a lay person who has contributed through ministerial work ) and the annual Aquinas Lecture ( given by leading theologians on current topics in theology ) . The Dubuque campus was sold to Emmaus Bible College . In December of 2005 the school moved again , this time to a former factory in Midtown St. Louis built in 1903 to house the Standard Adding Machine Company , which prospered with the invention of a 10 - key adding machine . The renovation of the building is part of a larger urban renovation project which will include residential and commercial space . On March 26 , 2007 , it was announced that Rev. Richard Peddicord 