Arcadia University is a private liberal arts university located in Glenside , Pennsylvania , on the outskirts of Philadelphia . The university has a co - educational student population of 3,600 . The university was recently ranked in the top 20 regional universities in the North by U.S. News & World Report . The 71 - acre campus features Grey Towers Castle , a National Historic Landmark . The school was founded in Beaver , Pennsylvania in 1853 . By 1872 it had attained collegiate status , under the auspices of the Methodist Episcopal Church , and was named Beaver College . In 1925 Beaver College moved east to Jenkintown , Pennsylvania . In 1928 , the school acquired the current campus in Glenside . The college operated both the Jenkintown and Glenside campuses into the mid - 1960 's , when it consolidated all activities onto the Glenside campus . In July 2001 , upon attaining university status , Beaver College officially changed its name to Arcadia University . It was thought that a new name would emphasize the school 's position as one of the top small institutions of higher learning on the East Coast , and would cement its change in designation from " college " to " university. " . The decision was also made in part to shed its association with the former commonly derided name . During the subsequent years , memorabilia from the former name became very popular for Arcadia students to give as gifts . The university offers over 50 fields of study , in 8 academic departments , in its undergraduate programs . The academic departments are Business Administration and Economics , Computer Science and Mathematics , Education , Fine Arts , the Humanities , Sciences & Pre - Health , the Social Sciences and inter - disciplinary programs . Graduate and professional studies at Arcadia University range widely from the liberal arts to the primarily professional , from the doctoral level to workshops . Arcadia 's international perspective is reflected in programs such as its accelerated part - time MBA with an International Perspective , its Master of Arts in International Peace and Conflict Resolution and its new program in Paris , France . The university is known for its study abroad programs . Nearly 95 % of undergraduates at Arcadia study in another country at least once during their college careers . Arcadia 's commitment to a global education has gained wide recognition . Open Doors 2005 , the Institute of International Education’s annual census , lists Arcadia University in fourth place—nationally—among masters institutions , ranked by “undergraduate participation in study abroad”—with a rate higher than all doctoral institutions . In the 2006 edition of its magazine , Arcadia was able to announce that " strategic growth finds Arcadia adding a graduate school campus in Paris , forging a new study abroad program in China , setting up a Physician Assistant program in Delaware and opening a peace center in Tanzania " . These and other successful projects were rewarded in 2006—declared the Year of Study Abroad by the U.S. Congress—when Arcadia’s creation of an integrative learning environment infused with international and multicultural experiences has earned it the prestigious 2006 Senator Paul Simon Award for Campus Internationalization from NAFSA , the Association of International Educators . Arcadia University teams compete in the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) Division III and the Pennsylvania Athletic Conference ( PAC ) . Men 's sports teams include baseball , basketball , golf , soccer , swimming and tennis . Women 's 