The Faculty of Philosophy , chronologically the very first building of Aristotle University , founded in 1925 . The University 's motto is engraved on the entrance . The Star Observatory of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki located inside the University campus . The Aristotle University of Thessaloniki ( often referred to in English as Aristotelian University ) , named after the philosopher Aristotle , is the largest university of Greece . Its campus covers 429 metric acres close to the center of the city of Thessaloniki . Some educational and administrative facilities are located off campus for practical and operational reasons . More than 95,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students study at the Aristotle University , 86,000 in undergraduate programmes and 9,000 in postgraduate programmes . Furthermore , the Teaching and Research Staff number 2,332 people ( 671 professors , 638 associate professors , 503 assistant professors , and 520 lecturers ) , the Scientific Teaching Staff number 103 and the Special Laboratory Teaching Staff 307 people . This is further supported by the 414 members of the Special Technical Laboratory Staff for teaching services end the 957 members of administrative staff . The establishment of the University of Thessaloniki as the second Greek university was legislated under Law 3341 / 14 - 6 - 25 during the premiership of Alexandros Papanastassiou , during the period of the first Greek Democracy . At first , according to Eleftherios Venizelos ' plans , right after the end of the First World War , Smyrni was intended to be the seat of the second Greek university although it was not then part of Greece , while the third was to be established in Thessaloniki . However , these plans fell through after the outcome of the Greco - Turkish War in Asia Minor . The chronological development of the University , which was renamed the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in 1954 , can be divided into three stages , each covering a period of approximately twenty - five years . During the first stage of its operation ( 1926 - 1950 ) , the development focused on those Schools which have been generally accepted as constituting one Institute , namely the Faculty of Philosophy , the Faculty of Physics and Mathematics , the Faculty of Law and Economics , the School of Theology and the Medical School . Only the Departments of Pharmacy ( 1955 ) , Dentistry ( part of Medical School since 1959 , and an independent School since 1971 ) as well as the Institutes of Foreign Languages within the Faculty of Philosophy were established and became operational after this time ( 1950 ) . The first stage of the development of the Aristotle University ended with the foundation of the Veterinary Medicine Faculty in 1950 , which was the only faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Greece for many years . Today , it is part of the Faculty of Geotechnical Sciences . During the second stage ( 1951 - 1975 ) the focal point of development was the Polytechnic School , which in fact constituted an independent institute also called the Polytechnic or Technical University . So , for the first fifty years of its operation the Aristotle University consisted of two institutes , the University and the Polytechnic , which operated independently . During the third stage of its development , the Aristotle University has acquired Departments and Faculties which were founded and operated , at first , as independent Institutes of higher Education . These were the Faculty of Art , Music Academies , the Theatrical 