Arizona State University ( ASU ) is a public research institution of higher education and research with campuses located in the Phoenix Metropolitan Area . It is a single , unified institution with each of the four campuses functioning as a planned clustering of colleges and schools . As of 2006 , the main Tempe campus is the second - largest university campus in terms of student enrollment in the United States , with a student body of 51,234 . In addition to the Tempe , Arizona campus , ASU has three other campuses : its West campus was created in 1984 in Phoenix ; its Polytechnic campus which opened in 1996 in Mesa ; and its newest campus in Downtown Phoenix , which opened in August 2006 . Combined , the West campus , Downtown campus , and Polytechnic campus enroll approximately 12,500 students . Each year , nearly 10,000 students graduate from the university 's four campuses . In 2006 , 188 National Merit Scholars chose to attend ASU . Many are part of the Barrett Honors College , which has produced 54 Fulbright scholars , 28 Goldwater scholars , 13 Truman scholars , and 1 Gilman scholar . Under the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education ASU is classified as an " RU / VH " ( formerly known as " Research - 1 " ) university . ASU students in front of Main Hall - 1908 . On February 26 , 1885 , House Bill 164 , “An Act to Establish a Normal School in the Territory of Arizona , ” was introduced in the 13th Legislative Assembly of Arizona Territory by John Samuel Armstrong . The bill , strongly supported by Charles Trumbull Hayden of Tempe , passed the House on March 6 and the Council on March 11 and was signed by Governor F.A. Tritle on March 12 , 1885 , thereby founding the institution known today as Arizona State University . Under the supervision of Principal Hiram Bradford Farmer , instruction was instituted on February 8 , 1886 , when 33 students met in a single room on land donated by George and Martha Wilson of Tempe . For the first 14 years , the school was governed by six principals . At the turn of the century and with another new name , Normal School of Arizona , President Arthur John Matthews brought a 30 - year tenure of progress to the school . He assisted in changing the school to an all - college student status ; the Normal School had enlisted high school students who had no other secondary educational facilities in Arizona . He embarked on a building schedule that included the state’s first dormitories . Of the 18 buildings constructed while Matthews was president , six are still in use . His legacy of an “evergreen campus , ” with the import of many shrubs and trees and the planting of Palm Walk , continues to this day : the main campus is a nationally recognized arboretum . Matthews also saw to it that the Normal School was accredited outside the state . His service on national education organization boards was conducive to this recognition . The school remained a teacher’s college in fact and theory during Matthews’ tenure , although the struggle to attain status as a university was ongoing . An extraordinary event occurred March 20 , 1911 , when former President Theodore Roosevelt visited the Tempe school and spoke from the steps of Old Main . He had dedicated the Roosevelt Dam the day 