The Arkansas State University System is a collection of ten campuses located across northeast and central Arkansas , USA . The system offices are located on the main campus in Jonesboro , Arkansas . In 2006 , the Arkansas State University System named Robert L. Potts the first chancellor of the Jonesboro campus and Les Wyatt the President of the ASU System . Previously , the ASU System president was also in charge of the Jonesboro campus . This move is expected to allow the System more room for growth . The Fowler Center on the Jonesboro campus of ASU is a regional center for the arts . Arkansas State University in Jonesboro was established in 1909 . In 1955 , the Beebe campus fell under the control of Arkansas State University . Arkansas State University Beebe , which has been in exhistance since 1927 , is the only two - year college in the state to offer traditional dorm housing . ASU - Beebe administers three other sites : ASU - Heber Springs , ASU - Searcy , and ASU - Little Rock Air Force Base . ASU - Beebe associated with White River Vocational - Technical School at Newport in 1992 ; that campus has since attained stand - alone status from ASU - Beebe and is now ASU - Newport . The Mountain Home campus officially became ASU - Mountain Home in 1995 . Delta Technical Institute at Marked Tree merged with ASU and became Arkansas State University Technical Center on in 2001 . ASU offers bachelor 's degree programs , master 's degree programs and upper level courses through ASU degree centers at ASU - Beebe , ASU - Mountain Home , and three other cities - - Blytheville , Forrest City , and West Memphis - where partnership agreements have been established in cooperation with the local community colleges . The ASU System also maintains ASU - Paragould , an instructional site of the Jonesboro campus . ASU has grown rapidly over the past 20 years . Current enrollment for the Jonesboro campus stands at about 12,000 , and the system has an enrollment of greater than 17,000 . 