Arkansas Tech University is a mid sized , state supported collegiate institution located in Russellville , Arkansas . The university offers programs at both baccalaureate and graduate levels in a range of fields . As of 2004 , the University also operates a small satellite campus in the town of Ozark , Arkansas . This campus primarily focuses on lower - level ( Associates and Certificate ) level education . The Second District Agricultural School was created by Act 100 of 1909 of the Arkansas General Assembly It was decided on February 10 , 1910 to found the school in Russellville . On October 26 , 1910 , the first classes were held in Russellville . The original purpose of the school was to offer classes leading to a high school degree . Later on , the school took on the first two years of college instruction , and the school 's name was changed to Arkansas Polytechnic College by the General Assembly in 1925 to reflect this change in purpose . At this time , the course work leading to a high school diploma was phased out and in 1931 , Tech formally only offered courses leading to a college degree . The school took on its current name of Arkansas Tech University on July 9 , 1976 . During this time frame , what is considered the most well - known person ever to attend Arkansas Tech , Elizabeth Ward , attended the university for a short time from 1980 until she was named Miss America . In the fall of 2003 , Arkansas Tech University announced it intended to overtake the state vocational school , Arkansas Valley Technical Institute , in Ozark , the seat of Franklin County . As of July 1 , 2004 , the Ozark campus has acted as a satellite campus of Arkansas Tech and has begun offering coursework leading toward an Associate of Science degree in various subjects . May we lift our eyes to thee . Be fore'er our destiny . In the hearts of us all . Enrollment has grown 36 % since 1998 . Thirty - five states and 32 foreign countries are represented in the student body . Almost 10 % of Tech 's incoming freshmen class graduated # 1 or # 2 in their high school class . Over 25 % of Tech 's students graduated in the top 10 % of their high school class . The latest numbers from the 2006 fall semester show that Arkansas Tech accepted only 48 % of its applicants , making it the most selective public institution in the state of Arkansas for the second consecutive year . 10 of the 12 academic areas eligible for national accreditation have been accredited and the remaining are in process . Once this occurs , Tech will be the only university in Arkansas to have all eligible programs accredited . One of only two ABET accredited Mechanical & Electrical Engineering programs in Arkansas . One of only three Emergency Administration & Management programs in the United States . Over 300 faculty members - - 45 % tenured and over 68 % hold their doctorate or the highest degree awarded in the discipline . The ratio of available computer workstations to students is more favorable than at any other university in Arkansas or in our region . Several Tech buildings are listed on the National Register of Historic Places . Caraway Hall - - Residence Hall , renovated in 2005 . Named after Arkansas Senator Hattie Caraway . Wilson Hall - - Residence Hall 