Arlington Baptist College is a private four year Bible college in Arlington , Texas . The current president is David Bryant . Enrollment is generally near 150 students . Founded by the well - known Fundamentalist J. Frank Norris in 1939 as Fundamental Baptist Bible Institute , it changed its name to Bible Baptist Seminary in 1945 and adopted its present name in 1972 . The school has been affiliated with the World Baptist Fellowship for its entire existence . The school first held classes at Norris ' First Baptist Church of Fort Worth , Texas until his death , then leased the facilities of the former Brantley Draughon Business College in Fort Worth . The lease on the temporary quarters was lost a year later . A search began for a more permanent home for the seminary when the Elmo White property , located on US Highway 80 ( now Texas State Highway 180 ) in Tarrant County , was purchased . Plans were being made to construct buildings on this site . In 1956 the former Top O ' Hill Terrace property became available . This property was purchased and the seminary relocated ; Arlington Baptist College has been on this site for 50 years . The college is accredited by Association for Biblical Higher Education . It offers four year Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degrees . While it was known as the Fundamental Baptist Bible Institute and ( later ) Bible Baptist Seminary , the school granted Master 's and Doctoral degrees , but does not now do so . The ABC athletic program has been inactive for several years . The school has traditionally competed with the Patriot as their mascot . John Birch , namesake for the ultra - conservative John Birch Society . One of the school 's first graduates in 1940 . Kirk Franklin , the Grammy - winning gospel singer attended ABC for one semester , playing on the basketball team during his time at the school . The Arlington campus is notable as being the site of a former casino which attracted the likes of Joe Louis , Humphrey Bogart , and Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow . Because of its notoriety the campus was declared a Texas state historic site on May 17 , 2004 . 