Armstrong Atlantic State University , abbreviated AASU , is a state university located in Savannah , Georgia . It is a unit of the University System of Georgia and is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools . AASU currently enrolls over 6,700 students at the undergraduate and graduate levels . Forty - three percent of the students are from the Savannah - Chatham County area . Others come from throughout Georgia , the nation , and 74 countries . In the 2004 - 2005 academic year , the university awarded a total of 999 degrees ; of that , 699 were Baccalaureate and 239 were master 's degrees . The university is fully accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools . AASU 's main 268 acre campus is located on Abercorn Street , right across from the Savannah Mall . In addition to the main campus , AASU operates the Brunswick Center ( along with Georgia Southern University and the Coastal Georgia Community College ) and the Liberty Center , located in Liberty County . The university was founded in 1935 as Armstrong Junior College , and was originally housed in a historic Armstrong house adjacent to Forsyth Park in downtown Savannah . The Armstrong house was originally donated to the city by the family of George F. Armstrong . The college eventually grew to encompass six buildings in the Forsyth and Monterey Square areas of Savannah . In 1959 , as Armstrong College of Savannah , it became a two - year unit of the University System of Georgia . The Board of Regents conferred four - year status on Armstrong State College in 1964 . Two years later , in 1966 , the college moved to its present 268 - acre site , a gift from the Mills B. Lane Foundation and Donald Livingston . It was designated a university by the Georgia Board of Regents in 1996 and its name was changed to Armstrong Atlantic State University . Additional buildings joined the six original structures as Armstrong added professional and graduate programs and quadrupled in size . 55 percent of the student population comes from outside the Savannah - Chatham County area including Georgia , the nation , and more than 60 countries . Armstrong Atlantic State University 's athletics program ( the Pirates ) competes at the NCAA Division II level and the school is a charter member of the Peach Belt Conference . Men 's athletic teams include basketball , baseball , tennis , and golf . Women 's teams include basketball , softball , volleyball , tennis , golf , and soccer . Of note , the women 's tennis team has been quite successful , earning NCAA National Championships in 1995 , 1996 and 2005 . Today the university offers associate 's , bachelor 's and master 's degree programs in a number of areas . The university offers a variety of extracurricular activities . AASU runs a student newspaper , has more than 60 student clubs , several Greek organizations , and academic honor societies . Other activities students have access to are student dramatic , choral , and instrumental groups , and the Faculty Lecture Series . AASU hosts nationally - known speakers , contemporary concerts , art exhibits , and performances by classical and modern artists . University facilities include multimedia classrooms , five computer labs , writing and math tutorial labs , an advisement center , an honors suite , three theaters , and an art gallery . The campus also offers lighted tennis 