The Army Institute of Management ( Formerly , National Institute of Management Calcutta ) ( NIMC ) was established on 28 July 1997 by the Indian Army under the aegis of Army Welfare Education Society ( AWES ) , New Delhi , to conduct state - of - art Management Programme for the wards of Army personnel with an opportunity for the general candidates as well . The eco - friendly campus is spreaded over nine acres of land at Alipore , in the heart of the City of Joy . Name of the Institute has been changed to Army Institute of Management , Kolkata with effect from 11 Feb 2005 . Lt Gen KS Jamwal , AVSM , VSM * GOC - in - C Eastern Command , is the current Patron - in - Chief of the Managing Committee of the institute . The institute offers two - year MBA Programme ( full time residential ) leading to a post graduation degree in MBA . Each year is split into two terms . The batch strength of the course is 120 . The programme emphasizes on an integrated understanding of theory and practice . Industrial Internship is mandatory as an integral part of the MBA Curriculum . Every student has to undergo eight weeks Industrial internship during May - June at the end of 1st year programme . Special emphasis is given to develop personality traits , communication skills , all - round awareness and practical knowledge of managing resources . Continuous interactions with Industry Captains are maintained through colloquia , seminars and discussions . The accommodation consists of 6 hostel blocks . All the students are provided with accommodation on campus in well - appointed room in the institute hostels . 24 hours Internet connectivity , recreation room are standard features . There is a STD / ISD , PCOs in the hostel premises for the convenience of the student . The institute believes in “Healthy minds dwell in healthy bodies “and the students are encouraged to use the sports facilities available on the campus . Gymnasium for Boys & Girls , a football / cricket ground , an indoor badminton court , Volleyball court , a basketball court , an indoor Table Tennis block . Also a swimming pool and other sports facilities are provided at near by Army Campus . Inferno , is inter - college events is held annually at the AIM Kolkata campus . Spanning two days of non - stop events , Inferno draws hundreds of participants from India 's premier institutions and features a host of events like - Ad Mad Show , Negociado , BrandIT , Cogitate , Sell your face , Die Hard , Finance Doctor , Face 2 Face , Manager Deems , Cook something up , Bulls and Bears and two online events open for worldwide B School students Creative CV Writing and Blog Hunt . Drishtikon , is an event of Budget discussion where institute invites eminent personalities from the industry to have a panel discussion on the same . Symposium , is an annual event , which is organized with the objective of bridging the gap between the classroom and the industry and to familiarize the students with the nuances of the business world . This Indian school - related article is a stub . 