Coordinates : 40.437198° N 79.999674° WThe Art Institute of Pittsburgh ( AIP ) is a private , for - profit , higher education institute that emphasizes career preparation for the creative job market . Founded in 1921 , it is the oldest and most storied of The Art Institutes throughout North America , spanning nine floors and also serving as the headquarters of The Art Institute Online . It has had a history of excellence producing all types of artists ( such as watercolorist Frank Webb and the late science fiction illustrator Frank Kelly Freas ) but specializing primarily in industrial design , advertising and graphic design . The school has a large investment in technology with its 17 computer labs of both Windows and Macintosh machines . Since opening its doors in 1921 , The Art Institute of Pittsburgh has relocated itself six times , growing and expanding each time into the school it is today . The year 2000 saw the school 's most recent relocation from its previous establishment at 526 Penn Avenue to 420 Boulevard of the Allies : a beautiful , nine - story historic landmark . The school currently resides roughly eight blocks from The Art Institutes headquarters of Education Management Corporation ( EDMC ) . The Art Institute of Pittsburgh is authorized by the Pennsylvania Department of Education and is authorized to confer the Bachelor’s of Science and Associate’s of Science degree to graduates of approved programs , approved for the training of veterans and eligible veterans’ dependents , and authorized under federal law to enroll non - immigrant alien students . The Art Institute is accredited by the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools ( “ACICS” ) to award the Associate’s of Science and the Bachelor’s of Science degrees . ACICS is listed as a nationally recognized accrediting agency by the U.S. Department of Education . Its accreditation of degree - granting institutions is recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation . Many Public and Private Universities will not accept transfer credits from the Art Institute of Pittsburgh . The Art Institute of Pittsburgh is a Candidate for Accreditation by the Commission on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools . Candidate for Accreditation is a status of affiliation with a regional accrediting commission which indicates that an institution has achieved recognition and is progressing toward , but is not assured of , accreditation . It has provided evidence of sound planning , seems to have the resources to implement the plan , and appears to have the potential for obtaining its goals within a reasonable time . Candidacy was granted in June 2003 . The Art Institute is a member of the American Council of Education , the American Association for Higher Education , the Allegheny Counselor’s Association , the Pennsylvania Association of Private School Administrators , the Pennsylvania Association of College Admissions Counselors , the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers , the National Art Education Association , the Ohio Council of Private Colleges and Schools , and the Ohio Association for College Admission Counseling . 