Photo of Art Center during the night . Art Center College of Design ( commonly referred to as Art Center ) is a private college located in Pasadena , California . It is one of the leading graphic and industrial design colleges in the world . The school logo is an orange circle , also known as the Art Center " Dot " , which has been a part of the school identity since its beginning . Art Center is particularly known for its Transportation ( Automobile ) Design program . It also has notable photography , graphic design , advertising design , illustration , fine art and film programs among others . The school maintains two campuses in Pasadena , both are considered architecturally notable . Art Center built its reputation as a vocational school , essentially , preparing returning GIs for work in the commercial arts fields . It has traditionally maintained a strong " real - world " focus , emphasizing craftsmanship , technique , and professionalism while somewhat de - emphasizing theory . Instructors are working professionals , for the most part , and projects are intended to map to real - life assignments . The challenge for schools like Art Center is maintaining a balance between talent and revenues . Tuition in 2006 is over $14,000 per term ( with three terms per year in a trimester system ) , with no offering of room and board , plus the considerable costs of books , supplies , and other learning incidentals . There are currently plans to build on campus housing . Undergraduates can obtain a four - year BFA degree in about 2.5 trimesters ( completing eight terms , though most students take a term off for independent study or to take formal internships in industry ) . The accelerated learning environment stems from the college 's trade school roots . Administrators and faculty want to mimic " real world " work scenarios as much as possible , in which there are no summer vacations . Art Center is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges and affiliated with the United Nations . Art Center was founded in 1930 in downtown Los Angeles as the Art Center School . During and after World War II , the Art Center ran a technical illustration program in conjunction with the California Institute of Technology . In 1947 , the post - war boom in students caused the school to expand to a larger location in building of the former Cumnock School for Girls in the Hancock Park neighborhood , while still maintaining a presence at its original downtown location . The school began granting Bachelor 's and Master 's degrees in arts in 1949 , and was fully accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges in 1955 . In 1965 , the school changed its name to the Art Center College of Design . The school expanded is programs , including a film program in 1973 . The school moved to its trademark Hillside Campus in Pasadena in 1976 . The school operated the Art Center Europe in Vevey , Switzerland for ten years starting in 1986 . In 2003 , the Art Center was granted Non - Governmental Organization status by the UN Department of Public Information . After mulling locations in Pasadena and downtown Los Angeles , Art Center opened the South Campus in Pasadena in 2004 . The Art Center College of Design maintains two campuses in Pasadena : Hillside Campus and South Campus . Designed by noted modernist 