Asbury Theological Seminary is a graduate institution that houses the schools of Biblical Interpretation and Proclamation , Theology and Formation , Practical Theology , World Missions and Evangelism , and Postgraduate Studies . It has campuses located in Wilmore , Kentucky ; Orlando , Florida ; and a virtual campus on the internet . Asbury Theological Seminary is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools ( SACS ) . Asbury Theological Seminary was founded in Wilmore , Kentucky in 1923 by its first president , Henry Clay Morrison . In 1940 , Asbury Seminary separated from Asbury College in order to satisfy accreditation requirements . Because of the proximity of the two schools ( across the street ) , similar name , and common theological heritage , many people confuse the relationship between the College and the Seminary . Today , there is no administrative connection between the two schools . Succeeding Morrison as president was J.C. McPheeters , who was succeeded by Frank Stanger . David McKenna was the fourth president in the school 's history . Maxie Dunnam was president until 2004 , when Jeff Greenway became the sixth president of Asbury Theological Seminary . In 2006 , Jeff Greenway resigned and Ellsworth Kalas is currently interim president . Theologically , the school is Wesleyan and has deep roots in the Holiness Tradition . It offers several M.A. degrees as well as a M.Div . Postgraduate students may pursue a Ph.D. in Missiology , a D.Min , or several Ph.Ds through an agreement with London School of Theology . Furthermore , in 2007 the school began offering a postgraduate degree in Biblical Studies . The Seminary has three campuses . Wilmore contains the original and largest campus . During Maxie Dunnam 's tenure as president , a campus in Orlando , Florida was opened . This campus was originally known as the " Orlando Campus , " and was renamed the " Dunnam Campus , " as a tribute to Maxie Dunnam upon his retirement as president . The extended learning campus ( EXL ) offers online classes , using the FirstClass program , allowing students all over the world to partake in studies . Asbury Theological Seminary was founded " to prepare and send forth a well - trained , sanctified , Spirit - filled , evangelistic ministry " to spread scriptural holiness throughout the world . Prepares men and women for prophetic ministries of redemption and renewal in an increasingly urbanized and secularized world . Technology resources include video production services and an information commons . The Information Commons is housed in the B.L. Fisher Library and contains 53 Windows - based computers and 4 Macintosh computers for students . There is also a student video editing bay . The Information Commons is a member of the American Theological Library Association and has 420,000 holdings . Parts of the campus are served by a wireless computer network . In addition , there are facilities for simulcasting meetings and classes between campuses by video teleconference . Ben Witherington III , professor of New Testament and author . Jerry Walls , professor of Philosophy of Religion . David Bauer , professor of Inductive Bible Study and dean of the School of Scripture and Proclamation . Ellsworth Kalas , Interim President and professor of Preaching . Ted Strickland ( class of 1967 ) , current Governor of Ohio and former member of the United State House of Representatives . James W. Holsinger , M.Div. , former chair of Board of Trustees , member of the Board of 