Asbury College is a Christian liberal arts institution located in Wilmore , Kentucky . Although it is a nondenominational school , the college 's foundation stems from a Wesleyan - Holiness tradition . The school offers 50 majors across 17 departments . Primarily a four - year , multi - denominational institution , Asbury ranked third in 2007 among comprehensive colleges in the South by U.S. News & World Report . Located across the street from the College is the campus of Asbury Theological Seminary , which became a separate institution in 1940 . In March , the school announced that current president Dr. William Clark Crothers will be replaced on July 1 by Dr. Sandra Gray . Asbury College is a member of the Christian College Consortium and is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools ( SACS ) . Asbury College was founded in 1890 by John Wesley Hughes in Wilmore , Kentucky . It was originally called the Kentucky Holiness College , but was later renamed after Bishop Francis Asbury , the " Father of American Methodism " and a circuit - riding evangelist . After being pushed out as President of Asbury College in 1905 , Hughes went on to found another college , Kingswood College , in Breckinridge County , Kentucky . Kingswood College no longer exists . Despite his disappointment over being removed at Asbury , Hughes wrote in his 1923 autobiography : " Being sure I was led of God to establish ( Asbury College ) , it being my college child born in poverty , mental perplexity , and soul agony , I loved it from its birth better than my own life . As the days have come and gone , with many sad and broken - hearted experiences , my love has increased . My appreciation of what it has done , what it is doing , and what it promises to do in the future , is such that I am willing to lay down my life for its perpetuation. " . In 1929 , Hughes was invited to break ground for Asbury College 's new chapel , Hughes Auditorium , which is still in use today . Under great financial difficulty , Asbury College hired Dr. Henry Clay Morrison , a Methodist evangelist and editor of the Pentecostal Herald magazine , as its president in 1910 . With the help of his Pentecostal Herald readers and his nationwide reputation as a great preacher ( William Jennings Bryan regarded him the " greatest pulpit orator on the American continent " ) , Morrison was able to pay off large debts owed by the college and increase its reputation and student body . After stepping down as president in 1925 , Morrison was asked once again to assume the presidency in 1933 under another financial crisis . He served his second term until 1940 . Asbury College has been known through the years for its history of great revivals . There have been several occasions when significant moves of the Holy Spirit have swept the campus and reached around the nation . In February 1905 , during a blizzard , a prayer meeting in the men 's dormitory spilled out to the rest of campus and the town of Wilmore . In February 1908 , revival broke out while someone prayed in chapel ; the revival lasted two weeks and was signified by prevailing prayer and intercession . In February 1921 the last service of a planned revival lasted until 6am , and services were extended for three 