Ashesi University is a private , secular , liberal arts college located in Labone , a suburb of Accra , Ghana , that opened in March of 2002 , founded by Patrick Awuah , a graduate of Swarthmore College and Haas School of Business . Ashesi’s mission is to train a new generation of ethical , entrepreneurial business leaders in Africa and to nurture excellence in scholarship , leadership and citizenship . Ashesi , which means “beginning” in the Akan language is a new beginning for higher education in Ghana . Housed in a campus that is equipped with state - of - the - art computers and the latest teaching materials , Ashesi University is at the forefront of a move towards a new pedagogy in African higher education . The university is accredited by the Ghanaian National Accreditation Board and features a four - year bachelors program grounded in a liberal arts core curriculum , offering degrees in business administration , management information studies and computer science . With an academic program designed in collaboration with 24 professors from Swarthmore College , University of California , Berkeley and University of Washington , Ashesi offers an educational experience unlike anything available in West Africa today . Ashesi was founded by Patrick Awuah , a Ghanaian who has spent over 15 years living and working in the United States . Awuah left Ghana in 1985 to attend Swarthmore College on a full scholarship , after which he worked for Microsoft Corporation as an engineer and a program manager for eight years . Experiencing firsthand the dramatic impact that education can have on one 's life , Awuah embarked on a mission in 1997 to provide greater educational opportunities in Ghana . He enrolled at UC Berkeley 's Haas School of Business , both to evaluate the feasibility of his goal and to gain a broader range of managerial skills with which to found and manage a university . During the summer of 1998 , a team of four MBA students from UC Berkeley 's Haas School of Business traveled to Ghana to conduct extensive market research and evaluate the feasibility of establishing a new university . With the explicit goal of gathering statistically significant data to provide a strong foundation for business decisions , the team administered over 3,300 surveys to students and parents ; conducted interviews and focus groups with parents , teachers and business leaders ; and gathered secondary information from local and international sources . The result was a comprehensive feasibility study analyzing the Ghanaian tertiary education landscape by addressing both the demand and supply sides of the question of feasibility . Information quoted from Ashesi University website and other Ashesi University materials was used with permission of the University . This African university , college or other education institution article is a stub . 