Asian Institute for Distance Education ( AIDE ) is a distance learning college accredited by the Commission on Higher Education ( CHED ) , the official government agency regulating all colleges and universities in the Philippines . AIDE is a private , non - sectarian , higher education institution offering programs leading to baccalaureate degrees via a mixed mode of instruction , largely dependent on self - instructional module packages . Bachelor of Arts major in English - courses include Creative Writing , The Teaching of English , Literary Criticism , Children 's Literature , Technical Writing , American Literature , Afro - Asian Literature , The Novel , Poetry , Drama , Cross - cultural Communication , etc . Bachelor of Arts major in Political Science - courses include Comparative Government & Politics , International Relations , International Law , Public Administration , British Political System , American Political System , Political Analysis , Government & Politics in Asia , etc . Bachelor of Science in Business Administration - courses include Corporate Finance , Marketing Management , Production Operations , Financial Management , International Management , Human Behavior in Organizations , Taxation , Accounting , Business Ethics , etc . AIDE courses are offered in printed modules which can be picked up or sent by mail to students . Each package includes lessons , open - book exams , and assignments . All modules are reviewed and updated on a periodic basis by in - house academic staff who are experts in their respective fields . The open - book exams and assignments have to be submitted to the AIDE Office for academic evaluation and grading . Upon submission of all required exams and homework , the student shall be required to be physically present to take his proctored final examination inside the school premises for each course so enrolled . Grades are then computed on the basis of final examinations and other submitted requirements . The grading system follows the CHED standard , which requires a passing grade of 75 % or higher for every academic course . Once a student passes all requirements , including final exams , for all academic courses required in a degree program , a CHED - recognized diploma and transcript of records can be awarded . Attendance to formal graduation ceremonies is optional . Established and fully operational since 1984 , AIDE is the oldest existing college of its kind in the Philippines . It is also one of only four government recognized distance learning providers offering full academic degrees . AIDE is headed by its incumbent President and Chief Executive Officer , Antonio O. Cojuangco . He concurrently sits as President of ABC - 5 Television Network and Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company ( PLDT ) . He holds degrees in business from Ateneo de Manila University and Stanford University . AIDE has attended conferences of the Asian Association of Open Universities , an international academic group based in China Central Radio and TV University in Beijing , China . AIDE 's administrative and educational offices are located at Unit 302 , Greenbelt Mansion , Perea Street , Legaspi Village , Makati City , Philippines . The mailing zip code is 1229 . AIDE can be reached via telephone numbers ( 632 ) 8100968 ) , ( 632 ) 8193286 , and ( 632 ) 8130565 . 25 - 27 October 2000 . Senator Drilon bats for distance learning . 26 February 2001 . Annual Conference of the Asian Association of Open Universities . 25 - 27 October 2000 . 