The Asian Institute of Technology ( AIT ) is an international institution for higher education in engineering , advanced technologies , and management and planning . It " promotes technological change and sustainable development " in the Asian - Pacific region , through higher education , research and outreach . Founded in 1959 as SEATO Graduate School of Engineering , with a mission to develop highly qualified and committed professionals who will play a leading role in the sustainable development of the region and its integration into the global economy , it receives funding from organizations and governments around the world ( initially from SEATO members ) . In 2006 , AIT claimed that it " has become a leading regional post - graduate institute and is actively working with public and private sector partners throughout the region and with some of the top universities in the world " . It also sees itself as being " recognized for its multinational , multi - cultural ethos " . This institute operates as a self - contained international community at its campus located some 40 kilometres ( 25 miles ) north of Bangkok , Thailand . The school was hosted by Faculty of Engineering , Chulalongkorn University , Thailand , before it became the AIT , an independent institution , in November 1967 . While its main campus is located in Thailand , there is a remote campus in Vietnam called AIT Center in Vietnam . Another two centers have been authorized to be setup in Indonesia and Pakistan . AIT consists of three schools , the AIT centre in Vietnam , and the AIT Extension . In 1989 , it received a Ramon Magsaysay Award for Peace and International Understanding , " . . . for shaping a new generation of engineers and managers committed to Asia , in an atmosphere of academic excellence and regional camaraderie. " . Hosted 1,949 students from 50 countries , and 104 faculty from 22 countries ( August 2006 ) , its main campus in Pathum Thani , Thailand , is situated just next to Thailand Science Park and Rangsit Center of Thammasat University . The campus is approximately 42 kilometers north of Bangkok , the capital of the country . The institute is a member of the Greater Mekong Sub - region Academic and Research Network , and LAOTSE – an international network of leading universities in Europe and Asia . AIT administers .th , the country code top - level domain for Thailand . 