The Asian Institute of Management , or simply AIM , is a graduate school of business and a center of business and management research . It is one of the very few schools in Asia to be internationally accredited with both AACSB and EQUIS accreditations . It is sometimes referred to as the Harvard of the East because it was established in partnership with Harvard Business School and because it uses Harvard teaching methodologies . It was described by Asiaweek magazine ( a TIME publication ) as the best in the Asia - Pacific region , and other magazines as one of the top three in Asia in the field of business education . It was founded in 1968 through an agreement by the Ateneo de Manila University and De La Salle University - Manila . It is located in Makati City , Manila , Philippines . AIM has a local board of trustees and an international board of governors . Today , AIM executes over twenty distinct programs each year . It received the Ramon Magsaysay Award for International Understanding in 1995 , for training Asians in management of business and development . With its commitment to the quality and the environment , AIM also became the world 's first graduate school of management to receive the ISO 14001 standard in 2000 . The Washington SyCip Graduate School of Business is known for its two - year MBA program . Instruction is based primarily on the case method originally developed at Harvard Business School . The school applies American and European management principles to problems in Asia . Over the decades however , the school has built up a bank of its own Asian cases . The school 's authentically Asian solutions to the region 's management problems is a unique strength in its business education . The Center for Development Management ( CDM ) has a one - year Master in Development Management program intended for executives and managers from developing nations who are deeply committed to the advancement of Asia . In addition , CDM conducts research , certificate courses in development management , and institution - building activities for Asian organizations . The center teaches development managers in matters that involve social and economic development of different sectors , most especially the marginalized . There are also special programs for professionals working in government and nonprofit organizations , as well as women in business . Asian Center for Entrepreneurship ( ACE ) has a Master in Entrepreneurship program to train entrepreneurs on making enterprises more productive , professional , and profitable . The Executive Education and Life Long Learning Centre offers the 18 - month Executive MBA , rated No. 1 by Asiaweek in 2000 . The AIM Policy Center is one of the centers for research and management excellence that the Asian Institute of Management houses . It is the public - policy think - tank of the Institute . The JBF Center in honor of the late Philippine Central Bank Governor Jose B. Fernandez , Jr focuses on research in the financial services industry . The Ramon V. del Rosario Sr. Center for Corporate Responsibility examines the nature of corporate social responsibility in the Asian context through research and programs . The Mirant Center for Bridging Societal Divides adopts the bridging leadership framework to address societal divisions and promote stakeholder empowerment to reduce societal inequities . The World Bank selected AIM as its strategic partner in Asia with the establishment of the AIM - World Bank Global Distance Learning Center in October 2002 making 