Asia - Pacific Nazarene Theological Seminary ( APNTS ) is a graduate - level theological educational institution located near Metro Manila in the Philippines . APNTS is a seminary in the Wesleyan theological tradition and affiliated with the Church of the Nazarene though its Division of World Mission . Its mission is to prepare " men and women for Christ - like leadership and excellence in ministries. " . Its institutional vision is : " Bridging cultures for Christ , APNTS equips each new generation of leaders to disseminate the gospel of Jesus Christ throughout Asia , the Pacific , and the world . Asia - Pacific Nazarene Theological Seminary is accredited by the Asia Theological Association ( ATA ) until 2011 , the Philippine Association of Bible and Theological Schools ( PABATS ) , and the Association for Theological Education in South East Asia ( ATESEA ) . Bachelor of Theology ( 048.1988 ) and Master of Arts in Christian Communication ( 030.1997 ) . The Commission of Immigration and Deportation , Ministry of Justice , Republic of the Philippines , has approved APNTS as an educational institution for non - immigrant students . Since 1984 APNTS has been a partner in the Asia Graduate School of Theology ( AGST ) , Philippines , which offers Master of Theology ( Th . M. ) , Doctor of Ministry ( D.Min. ) , Doctor of Education ( Ed . D. ) , Doctor of Missiology ( D.Miss. ) , and Doctor of Philosophy ( Ph . Asia - Pacific Nazarene Theological Seminary is incorporated legally as a corporation in the republic of the Philippines . Governance of APNTS is tasked by the articles of incorporation to the Board of Trustees who are elected usually every four years by members of the Church of the Nazarene in the Asia - Pacific Region . Ex - officio members are the APNTS President , Regional Director of the Asia - Pacific Region of the Church of the Nazarene , and the Regional Director of the Eurasia Region of the Church of the Nazarene . Members from each of the following fields of the Church of the Nazarene are elected to represent their geographic areas : Australia - New Zealand , Chinese Ministries , Japan , Korea , Melanesia ( including Papua New Guinea ) , the Philippines , Sealands , South Asia , South East Asia , and South Pacific . The Board of Trustees meets annually in Manila , usually prior to the annual graduation ceremony in late March or early April , and elects from within its own group a chairperson , vice - chairperson , secretary and treasuer ( the latter two being citizens of the Philippines as required by Philippine law ) . The current officers are chairperson Rev Steve Walsh of Australia ( since March 1996 ) , who is an APNTS graduate ; vice - chairperson Dr Daniel Saengwichai of Thailand ; secretary Dr Julie Macainan - Detalo , president of Visayan Nazarene Bible College ; and treasurer Rev Lucinda " Luz " Tamayo , senior pastor of the Tay Tay First Church of the Nazarene . Administration of APNTS is tasked by the articles of incorporation to the President of APNTS , who is a member of the Church of the Nazarene , and the Administrative Council . The President is a member of the Church of the Nazarene elected by the Board of Trustees usually for a four - year term . The Administrative Council is nominated by the President and approved by the Board 