UCTI , the Asia Pacific University College of Technology and Innovation , is a premier private university in Malaysia . Since its inception in 1993 as the Asia Pacific Institute of Information Technology ( APIIT ) , the University has produced more than 14,000 graduates . Together with APIIT , UCTI offers internationally benchmarked undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in various areas of Computing , Information Technology , Media , Technopreneurship , Business & Computer Games which focus on developing students into well - rounded professionals with the right blend of knowledge , skills and attitudes to succeed in their careers . Having established operations in Malaysia , India , Sri Lanka and Pakistan , employability is a major focus at UCTI and APIIT at all its sites . APIIT and UCTI together offer more than 50 programmes at Foundation degree , Diploma , Bachelor 's degree and Master 's degree . All programmes share common themes of creativity and innovation , and the notion of technology as a key enabler . UCTI offers a wide range of specialist degree programmes , all of which are quality assured and awarded in association with Staffordshire University . This arrangement means that students will get degrees which are awarded in association with Staffordshire University . UCTI and APIIT will continue to expand the portfolio of Technology programmes offered to include areas such as Engineering , Media , Entertainment Technology , Bioinformatics and Biotechnology , Tourism Technology , Film Technology and Sports Technology . APIIT has an intensive English language programme that aims to provide graduates with the necessary language proficiency to operate in the workforce . The Foundation programmes at UCTI are designed for students who do not ' A ' Levels ( or equivalent ) or other Pre - University qualifications to prepare them for entry into the first year of university degree programme . The following Diploma programmes are awarded by APIIT & Quality assured by Staffordshire University , UK . The following Bachelors Degree and Masters Degree programmes are awarded by Staffordshire University , UK . These Degrees are approved by the Ministry of Higher Education and Accredited by the Malaysian National Accreditation Board . Institutional Audits for English Universities , QAA ) . APIIT 's Research & Development output has worldwide potential and is being adopted by several countries around the world . APIIT was among the first private institutions of higher learning in Malaysia to receive R&D grants , and have received accolades and awards for several R&D innovations . Some of the above innovations are already in varying stages of commercialization , and have been successfully taken into the international marketplace . APIIT was the first private institution of its kind in Malaysia to achieve ISO 9000 certification , which was obtained in 1994 , and its Quality Management System has been the model for systems developed by a number of other many other institutions . In 2004 , APIIT also became the first and only Institution in the region to achieve CMMI ( Capability Maturity Model - Integrated ) Level 3 certification for the development of its technology solutions and innovations , and is now moving towards Level 5 Certification . All of APIIT 's programmes are internationally Quality Assured through strategic partnerships with University partners . This involves continuous review of teaching , learning and assessments activities so as to ensure comparability of student experience and academic standards . 