The Asper School of Business is located on the University of Manitoba , Fort Garry Campus in South Winnipeg , Manitoba . The school began in 1937 as the University of Manitoba Faculty of Management . The school was renamed in 2000 in honour of Izzy Asper , noted for his many contributions to the City of Winnipeg and the University of Manitoba over the span of his life . There are currently 1,400 B.Comm . ASPER MBA PROGRAM with focused specializations in Finance , Human Resource Management , Marketing , Supply Chain Management and Health Administration . MASTER OF SCIENCE IN MANAGEMENT PROGRAM with areas of concentration in Business Administration ( Industrial Relations / Human Resource Management / Management of Organizations , Marketing or Supply Chain Management . PH.D. IN MANAGEMENT PROGRAM with areas of concentration in Finance , Management Science , Marketing , and Organizational Behaviour . Like all Faculties within the University of Manitoba , the Asper School of Business offers many student organizations for all students attending the Asper School of Business . CSA is student - run with 42 active members including 6 executive members and 36 internal members . These 42 active members do everything from planning , organizing and promoting 60 events within the Drake Centre or as required else where . All students wishing to apply to the Asper School of Business must complete University 1 ( first year of University ) . All Manitoban and Canadian High School students may apply to University 1 directly if they meet all University requirements . Once University 1 is completed with a mininum of 30 credit hours , students may enter the Asper School of Business during their second year of University based on their University 1 GPA . The current University 1 GPA to get into the Asper School of Business is 2.90 . The University of Manitoba is the only University in Canada to offer University 1 . University 1 is a unique first - year program that helps high school to University life . University 1 is mandatory for all students entering the University of Manitoba unless they apply directly into General Studies ( Continuing Education ) , Agriculture , Engineering , Fine Arts , Music , or Nursing . GPA Scale used by the Red River College and other Manitoban Colleges and Universities including the University of Manitoba . 