Assam Engineering College established in 1955 is located in Jalukbari area of Guwahati city . It is the premier technical institute of the entire North East India . Assam Engineering College was established in 1955 , the first under graduate engineering college in the North - Eastern India . It started with Civil Engineering , and within a few years other departments came into existence . Currently , it awards Bachelor 's Degrees in eight different engineering disciplines and Master 's Degrees in Computer Applications , Civil Engineering and Industrial and Production Engineering . There are Phd programs in Soil Mechanics & Hydraulics . It 's annual festival called the " Pyrokinesis " attracts students from the entire region . With a well spread out lush green campus , AEC has been the hub centre of many intellectual and extracurricular activities in Assam for almost half a century . Assam Engineering College is situated at Jalukbari in South - West Guwahati , which is a landmark place in the colourful and chequered history of Assam . Bounded by the Gauhati University on the north , the Deepor Beel on the south , the Government Ayurvedic College on the east , and the Assam Police Radio Organisation on the west , Assam Engineering College spells a magical impact on the visitors . Well connected to the major city centres by open and wide roads , the College campus is about 9 km . In all there are 9 hostels of which eight are men 's hostels and one women 's hostel . Each Hostel is self - contained with amenities such as a reading room , an indoor games room , a lounge and a dining hall with mess . All rooms are provided with internet access as well . The administrative head of each hostel , the Superintendent , is a senior faculty member . There are Hostel Committees at the Hostel level . The Hostel Committee of each hostel is composed of Superintendent and a student body of Block Monitors , Mess Secretaries , Sports Secretary , Cultural Secretary , Magazine Secretary , Welfare Secretary and Auditors . The committee is an exercise in self - governance and a successful one . The department of Master of Computer Applications , established in 1990 , offers M.C.A. courses of three years duration with an annual intake of 30 students and a student to teacher ratio of 3:1 . Well equipped three laboratories with Pentium , AMD Workstations , Servers running under WindowsNT , Linux , UNIX providing the environment to work on C , C + + , VB , Java , Shell Programming and having high speed Internet connectivity . Head of the Department : - Maushumi Barooah George . The department of Mechanical Engineering , established in 1957 was one of the first departments of the college . It offers B.E. courses of four years with an annual intake of 60 students and a student to teacher ratio of 5:2 . Equipped with laboratory facilities , a library and experienced faculty , this branch has produced generations of mechanical engineers in Assam - in the private and public sector , and academia . The department of Civil Engineering , established in 1956 , was the first branch introduced in this college . The department boasts of highly qualified faculty and a well - equipped labs for field work . The annual intake capacity is 60 students per semester in B.E. degree course and 25 students in the M.E. degree course . This department also offers a Ph.D. degree 