This article is about the college in Worcester , Massachusetts , USA . Assumption College is a private , Catholic , liberal arts college located on 175 acres ( 708,000 m² ) in Worcester , Massachusetts . Currently Assumption has an enrollment of approximately 2150 students . The college confers Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Sciences degrees in its Undergraduate program , Master of Arts and Masters of Business Administration degrees in its Graduate program , and Associate 's degree degrees through its Continuing Education program . The college is primarily overseen by a Board of Trustees which is composed of both lay and clerical members that advise the college president , Francesco Cesareo , Ph.D . Assumption was founded in the year 1904 by the Augustinians of the Assumption , a Catholic order under the Augustinian Rule dedicated to service through teaching and the dogma of the Assumption of Mary . The original campus was located in the Greendale section of Worcester , on a tract of hillside land . In these early years , enrollment was exclusively male , primarily of French - Canadien heritage . Most courses were taught in French , though a very few were taught in English . In June 1953 , a tornado cut a path of destruction through several Western and Central Massachusetts communities , including the city of Worcester . Several campus buildings were destroyed or severely damaged by this tornado . Although the Assumption Preparatory School stayed on the rebuilt campus until circa 1970 , the College relocated to a new campus off Salisbury St , in the West side of the city , officially opening in 1956.The old Assumption campus complex was sold to the state after the prep school closed , and is today the home of Quinsigamond Community College . In 1969 , Assumption became a coeducational institution , allowing both laymen and - women into the faculty and female students into its programs of study . Centennial festivities began early in January 2004 , celebrating the College 's 100th year . On February 15 , 2007 , the Assumption College Board of Trustees announced that Dr. Francesco Cesareo , an American author and historian , would succeed President Thomas R. Plough on July 1 , 2007 . As the fifteenth president of the instituion , Plough oversaw an agressive 8 - year Centennial Campaign which raised over $33 million dollars for campus renovations and construction . Assumption 's first effort at continuing education began in 1954 with the founding of the Evening College , later known as the St. Augustine Institute . Non - credit courses were offered two years later with the founding of The Adult Education Center . Both facilities were coeducational and open to the public . Assumption phased out both facilities in the late 1960s . In 1979 , Assumption launched a second effort at continuing adult education with the Center for Continuing and Professional Education . This new facility combines the credited courses of the old Evening College and the non - credit work of the Adult Education Center into one office . The Center is celebrating its 25th anniversary in the same year as the undergraduate College 's Centennial . The French Institute ( Institut français ) , founded in 1979 , serves as a specialized research center for students studying French history , culture and language . The Institute was founded by Father Wilfrid J. Dufault , A.A. , the late chancellor emeritus of the College , and Dr. Claire Quintal , founding director emerita , in order 