This article is about the women 's college in Mendham , New Jersey . The Assumption College for Sisters is a two - year Roman Catholic women 's college in Mendham , Morris County , New Jersey , 35 miles from New York City . Founded in 1953 through an affiliation with nearby Seton Hall University , Assumption is run by the Sisters of Christian Charity and is housed in their Mallinckrodt Convent on a 112 - acre property . It is the last remaining sisters ' college , or college primarily designed to educate nuns , located in the United States . Although it faced a possible closure in the 1990s , Assumption has since experienced a rebound due to heavy recruiting of religious women from outside of the U.S. , particularly Africans and Southeast Asians . Since the 2006 - 2007 academic year , all students have come from outside of the United States . The college has a 100 % admission rate . Since it is primarily designed to prepare women for work in religious vocations , Assumption specializes in theological studies and the liberal arts . Religious courses are offered in doctrine , morality , catechetics , mariology , ecclesiology , and other areas of focus . More traditional subjects such as philosophy , art , literature , history , music , chemistry , biology , calculus , psychology , and computer literacy are also offered and required . Students at Assumption can receive the Associate of Arts and / or the Associate of Religious Arts upon graduation ; a certificate option in Theological Studies is also available . The student body at Assumption is comprised of women who have been accepted to religious orders , women under spiritual advisement who are considering joining religious orders , and lay people . Lay students may only receive credit for courses in theology and philosophy ; all other courses must be audited . Men are permitted to register for a limited number of courses . Assumption is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education and the Commission on Higher Education of the State of New Jersey ; it has been continuously accredited since 1965 . It is a member of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities and the National Catholic College Admission Association . Agnes Scott • Assumption • Alverno • Barnard • Bay Path • Bennett • Brenau • Bryn Mawr • Cedar Crest • Chatham • Columbia • Converse • Cottey • Georgian Court • Hollins • Judson • Lexington • Mary Baldwin • Meredith • Midway • Mills • Moore • Mount Holyoke • Mt. Mary • Mt . 