Aston University is a " plate glass " campus university , situated on a 40 - acre ( 0.16km² ) campus at Gosta Green , near the city centre of Birmingham , England . Established in 1895 as the Birmingham Municipal Technical School , Aston achieved university status on 22 April 1966 . Following from its background as a technology college , Aston continues to have a focus on industry . A majority of students is registered on courses leading to a BSc and over 70 per cent of undergraduate students at Aston are enrolled on four - year " sandwich " courses , spending a year abroad or on industry placements . The university emphasises its focus on industry placements and graduate employment record : in 2004 , 81.4 per cent of first degree graduates found employment within six months of graduation , compared to the UK national average of 72 per cent . Aston is a small university in terms of student numbers , serving just 5,780 full - time undergraduates , compared with the 16,340 of its nearest neighbour institution , the University of Birmingham . Founded in 1895 as The Birmingham Municipal Technical School , it officially became the University of Aston in Birmingham on receipt of its Royal Charter on 22 April 1966 , and acquired its current name in 1997 . Sir Michael Bett took over the position of Chancellor on October 21 , 2004 from Sir Adrian Cadbury , whose younger brother Sir Dominic Cadbury is Chancellor of the University of Birmingham . The campus is shared with the University of Central England 's Institute of Art and Design . Aston has the oldest public swimming baths in the country , built in 1860 . The University’s Arms were granted on 18 March 1955 by Garter , Clarenceux and Norroy and Ulster Kings of Arms to the Birmingham Corporation for use by the former College of Technology . They were designed to show the College’s connection with the City and with the teaching of technology . The arms consist of a shield and crest . The shield has two sections – the field ( the main background ) which is coloured blue and a chief ( the broad band across the top of the shield ) of silver . On the field is a diagonal line of five gold diamonds joined one to the other , similar to the first quarter of the Arms of the City of Birmingham and incorporated in the Arms of the College to show its connection with the City . This was adopted by the family of Bermingham , which derived its name from the then hamlet of Birmingham , and provided the Lords of the Manor from the fourteenth to the sixteenth centuries . On the chief is depicted an open book bound in red placed between two black hammers , showing the connection of the University with technology , the book representing learning and the hammers engineering and allied trades . The crest is also designed to stress the pursuit of knowledge . It consists of a red torch held erect by a forearm between two branches of gold laurel . Having been originally worn on the helmet of a fully - armed person , the crest is always placed on the top of the helm . The method of joining the crest to the helm was usually concealed by decoration and , in the University’s arms , this is effected by the use of a wreath and a crown . The wreath is silver , 