The School of Public Affairs is an academic unit within the College of Public Programs at Arizona State University ( ASU ) . As a school of Public Policy , ASU School of Public Affairs offers innovative educational and professional opportunities to help build stronger and more effective public leaders . Our academic programs prepare people for a variety of positions in the public and nonprofit arenas by encouraging clear and thoughtful analysis , innovative approaches to management , and a creative understanding of the governance process . The ASU School of Public Affairs offers the only NASPAA - accredited MPA program in the Phoenix metropolitan area , a program consistently ranked as one of the best MPA programs in the country by U.S. News and World Report . The School also offers a highly regarded Ph.D. program in Public Administration , as well as undergraduate programs in Public Management and Administration and in Leadership and Ethics . The School began a new Bachelor’s degree in Urban and Metropolitan Studies and a new Master of Public Policy degree in Fall 2006 . We recognize that the new demands on public leadership in the context of global urban governance are absolutely unprecedented in complexity and scope . The ASU School of Public Affairs believes that the most important intellectual contribution we can make is to develop multiple , useful , and realistic models of governance with attendant processes for extended civic engagement and to help train a new generations of urban leaders capable of addressing the questions raised by the growth of global citistates . The ASU School of Public Affairs’ outstanding faculty includes recipients of prestigious academic and professional awards , including membership in the National Academy of Public Administration . The School champions diversity , and isinternational in scope , welcoming students from many of the 50 states and nations across the globe . The School is an active partner with the private and nonprofit sectors in initiatives to enhance the social well - being , economic competitiveness , cultural depth , and quality of life of metropolitan Phoenix , the State of Arizona , and beyond . In addition to its academic programs , the ASU School of Public Affairs houses the Morrison Institute for Public Policy , which provides outstanding policy research and analysis for audiences all across the state and region , and the Executive Education Program , which offers outstanding executive development opportunities for practitioners in the field . Arizona State University is one of the premier metropolitan public research universities in the nation . Enrolling more than 64,000 undergraduate , graduate , and professional students on four campuses in metropolitan Phoenix , ASU maintains a tradition of academic excellence in core disciplines , and has become an important global center for innovative interdisciplinary teaching and research . ASU offers outstanding resources for study and research , including libraries and museums , studios and performing arts spaces for creative endeavor , and unsurpassed state - of - the - art scientific and technological laboratories and research facilities . 