The Ateneo de Manila University ( also called " Ateneo de Manila " or simply " the Ateneo " ) is a private university run by the Society of Jesus in the Philippines . It began in 1859 when the City of Manila handed control of the Escuela Municipal de Manila in Intramuros , Manila to the Jesuits . It was then a state - subsidized school . It became a private school during the American occupation of the Philippines , and has moved from Manila to its current location . It received its university charter in 1959 . Its main campus in Loyola Heights , Quezon City , Metro Manila is home to the university 's college and graduate school units , as well as its high school and grade school . Two other campuses , in Rockwell Center and Salcedo Village , both in Makati City , house the university 's professional schools of business , law , and government . A third facility in the Eugenio Lopez III Medical Complex in Ortigas Center , Pasig City houses its school of medicine and public health . The Ateneo offers programs in the elementary , secondary , undergraduate , and graduate levels . Its academic offerings cover various fields , including the Arts , Humanities , Business , Law , the Social Sciences , Philosophy , Theology , Medicine and Public Health , Biology , Chemistry , Physics , Computer Science and Information Technology , Engineering , Environmental Science , and Government . Aside from teaching , the Ateneo de Manila also engages in research and social outreach . It is one of only two universities in the Philippines to receive Level IV accreditation - - the highest possible level - - from the Federation of Accrediting Agencies of the Philippines and the PAASCU . It received its Level IV accreditation on June 2004 . Among the Ateneo 's alumni are Jose Rizal , the National Hero of the Philippines , several leaders of the propaganda movement during Philippine Revolution against Spain and the Philippine War against the United States , famous politicians including two Philippine Presidents , political activists , professionals , businessmen , and some famous writers and artists . The Ateneo de Manila University operates from several campuses in Metro Manila , with each campus housing different academic and research units . Several thousand faculty members serve a diverse student body of different ages in different academic levels , from elementary to postgraduate . The Loyola Schools have around 8,000 undergraduate students and around 3,000 graduate students making the Ateneo small , in terms of population , relative to many other Philippine universities . The University began in 1859 when the City of Manila turned over the Escuela Municipal , a public primary school in Intramuros , to Spanish Jesuits . The school took the name Ateneo when it began offering secondary education in 1865 , and has since grown into a university engaged in teaching , research , and social outreach . Its academic programs are geared towards research coupled with praxis and real - world output through which the university and its community engage social problems , especially in areas of national development and addressing poverty . The Ateneo has grounded its vision and mission in Jesuit educational tradition . Because of the Jesuit educational tradition of engagement with the world at large , the university is involved with civic work . Social involvement is a key part of Ateneo education , being integrated into the curricula of practically all university programs . Some 