The Ateneo de Davao University ( AdDU ) is a private Catholic university founded administered by the by Jesuit priests in the island of Mindanao in the Philippines in 1948 . It is subdivided into eight colleges includingthe School of Arts and Sciences , School of Governance and College of Nursing . It also runs grade school and high school units . It has two sprawling campuses , the Jacinto Campus ( which houses the various colleges of the university , including the Graduate School and the Ateneo Law School ) and the Matina Campus ( elementary and high school ) - all located in the center of Silicon Gulf , Davao City , the de facto business , trade , commerce and education capital of Mindanao . The grade school , high school and college units of the university have been granted Level III accreditation by the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools , Colleges and Universities ( PAASCU ) . It also enjoys full autonomy status granted by the Commission on Higher Education ( CHED ) , the Philippine government agency in - charge of institutions of higher learning . Similarly , CHED recognized the university as a regional center of excellence ( COE ) in Mathematics , Biology , Chemistry , Information Technology and Business Education in southern Mindanao and also identified as a Center of Development ( COD ) in Information Technology. the Ateneo de Davao College of Law is ranked among the top four law schools in the Philippines . The School of Arts and Sciences ( SAS ) was opened in 1951 with 130 students enrolled in various offerings namely : liberal arts , commerce , education , associate in arts , pre - law , secretarial , and elementary teacher 's certificate program . In subsequent years , other College programs were added . After the University obtained University status in 1977 , a number of other programs were included in the list . Today , the SAS is subdivided into seven divisions namely : Engineering & Architecture , Humanities , Natural Science and Mathematics , Philosophy , Social Science and Education , Theology and Computer Studies . The undergraduate business courses of the Ateneo de Davao University were under the School of Arts and Sciences ; the MBA , MPA and MAN programs were under the Graduate business Programs and the MGA program was under the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences . In an effort to have all the business courses of all levels be vertically articulated and in an effort to integrate the business and governance courses into one school , the AdDU School of Business & Governance ( SBG ) was born . April 1 , 2000 was the date the SBG was launched . It aims at providing a dynamic learning environment for responsible and humanistic business education , research and administration . It strives to be comparable to the best business schools in the world in the quality of its teaching and research and in its impact . Under its aegis are accountancy , business management , entrepreneurship , human resource management , finance , management accounting , marketing and graduate business programs as well as support programs in computer literacy and research and extension offices . The college distinguished itself in its excellent classroom and out of classroom instruction , experienced and qualified faculty with a business research orientation , and strong academe - industry linkages . It seeks to establish itself as a Center of Excellence in business as it develops competent , development focused and 