The Ateneo School of Government or ASG is the graduate school of public affairs of the Ateneo de Manila University , a private , Roman Catholic university established by the Society of Jesus in the Philippines . In 1996 , the ASG was established to develop public leadership and management . It seeks to provide cooperation among the government , the private sector , non - government organizations , and people 's organizations . In November 2000 , twenty - five staff members of the Philippine Department of Agriculture started the customized , full - time program . In January 2001 , sixteen students for the first batch and thirty students for the second batch started the general MPM program for the publc . In June 2001 , twenty senior staff members of the Philippine House of Representatives graduated from the customized , part - time program . The Master in Public Management or MPM is the flagship academic program of the ASG . The MPM is a forty - five - unit masteral degree program for leadership and management in the public and non - profit sectors . Customized program : The MPM is offered full - time or part - time according to the specific needs of the requesting institutions or organizations where a significant number of MPM participants are coming from . Public Offering ( PO ) : The MPM is offered to individuals and the general public . Classes are fixed on a periodic basis . Short training programs which are task - oriented and skill - specific are also available . These continuing education and executive classes can be customized to suit the needs of organizations . The MPM makes use of actual cases and practical exercises in concentrated and accelerated modular schedules . ASG courses are taught through adult learning techniques that build on the student’s experience . These techniques include active discussions in class , the use of problem - based case studies , simulations and lectures . Each academic subject is delivered through four - hour sessions per week for eight consecutive weeks . The MPM is composed of forty - five units . Each three - unit course is composed of eight classes usually held every Saturday . Each class generally runs for four hours in duration . Part - time MPM requires approximately two - and - a - half years to complete . However , under the MPM accelerated option , a student can take six academic units per module . The ASG requires MPM applicants to hold at least a bachelor 's degree in any field , good academic records , and at least two years of significant work experience . Applicants must be interested to work in the public sector , and usually come from the government , foreign funding agencies , lawyers , elected local officials , non - government organizations , the media , and the academe . The ASG draws from experienced and academically qualified pool of faculty . All faculty members have experience working in or for government . Prominent faculty members include Representative Nereus Acosta , and Senators Francis Pangilinan and Francis Escudero . 