The Ateneo de Zamboanga University is a private university in Western Mindanao . It is also known by it 's initials , ADZU or AdeZU . Founded by the Society of Jesus in the early 1900s it is the second oldest Jesuit school in the Philippines . It initially catered to primary and secondary education for boys . It became a college in 1952 , and a university in August 2001 . It currently has two campuses . The main campus in La Purisima Street houses the Colleges and Grade School , while the newly constructed campus , outside Zamboanga City proper holds the High School . Several facilities in the new campus will be constructed in the future such as expansion of the Grade School , an auditorium , and newer sports facilities . The Ateneo de Zamboanga also holds the largest library in Zamboanga City . Its official student publication is The Beacon Magazine . The Sanggunian ng mga Mag - aaral ng Ateneo de Zamboanga University ( SMADZU ) is its supreme student government . The Ateneo de Zamboanga began in 1912 as the Escuela Catolica , a parochial school run by Spanish Jesuits at the old site of the Immaculate Conception Church . The Ateneo de Zamboanga University seal reflects the mission of the school . The school 's motto is " Pro Deo et Patria , " ( " In the service of God and Country " ) is found at the top of the seal . And on the bottom , is the name of the school . In a circular field is the school shield . The red and yellow stripes are derived from the coat of arms of the family of Oñaz , the paternal line of St. Ignatius of Loyola . In the center are two wolves and a pot . These are of the medallion of the family of Loyola , the maternal line of St. Ignatius . This stands for the generosity for which the house of Loyola was well known . Across on the upper right portion of the shield symbolizes the Christian character of the Ateneo . A vinta indicates the various cultural communities of the South Western Philippines , where the school is located . On the bottom left are a book and torch , the traditional symbols of education . Above the shield is a glorious sunburst , inscribed with the monogram of the Society of Jesus , IHS , surmounted by a cross , and below of which are three nails . The " IHS " are the first letters of the name of Jesus in Greek . Emanating from the name of Jesus are the Blue and white rays that signify his gifts and grace for all . Ateneo also holds a unique sportfest called " Ateneo Fiesta. " . This week - long event starts on the last week of November . Most competitors are student - athletes also preparing themselves for the PRISAA competition two weeks after . Students from different colleges then join one another and form teams that participate in different sports events included in PRISAA City Elimination . Regional Elimination takes place in January of the following year and followed on by the National PRISAA event a month after . 