The Ateneo School of Medicine and Public Health or ASMPH is the medical school of Ateneo de Manila University , a private , Roman Catholic university of the Society of Jesus in the Philippines . The school is located in the Eugenio Lopez III Medical Complex in Ortigas Center , Pasig City , beside its partner hospital , The Medical City . Its current dean is Alfredo R.A. Bengzon . The AMSPH draws from the collective strengths and expertise of the Loyola Schools , the Health Unit of the Ateneo Graduate School of Business , and its partner training hospital , The Medical City . The program is designed to be integrated with a pre - professional phase through the Health Sciences program of the School of Science and Engineering at the Loyola Schools . It is likewise compatible with other degree programs such as majors in Biology , Psychology , Chemistry , Physics , Medical Technology , Zoology , Economics , Interdisciplinary Studies , among others , from all other schools and universities . The Professional Phase of the program of learning offered at the ASMPH is a double degree program leading to the degrees of doctor of medicine and master of management . The Dean of the ASMPH is Dr. Alfredo R.A. Bengzon , M.D. , M.B.A . Serving as Associate Dean is Dr. Maria Eufemia C. Yap , M.D. , M.Sc . Dr. Yap finished with a bachelor of science degree in biology from the Ateneo in 1983 . She pursued her medical studies at the Far Eastern University - Nicanor Reyes Medical Foundation in 1987 . She attended the University of Heidelberg , where she graduated Master of Science in Community Health and Health Management in 1997 . She has held positions in the Ateneo’s health - related projects such the Center for Community Services ( CCS ) and Health Alternatives for Total Human Development Institute ( HEALTHDEV ) , before she joined the AGSB as a faculty member and then as Associate Director and Assistant to the Vice President for the Professional Schools . Since 2003 , she has been Director of the AGSB 's Health Unit . Appointed Director for Academic Affairs and Faculty Development is Dr. Ma. Luz S. Casimiro - Querubin , M.D. , FPPA . She was valedictorian of the Ateneo , finishing a degree in A.B. Psychology in 1981 . She graduated with an M.D. from the University of the Philippines in 1987 , and obtained a Diplomate from the Philippine Board of Psychiatry in 1999 . Prior to her appointment , Dr. Querubin was an attending psychiatrist in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine at the Philippine General Hospital . She is currently a member of the medical staff of the Department of Psychiatry at The Medical City . She was Associate Clinical Professor at the College of Medicine , University of the Philippines , a faculty member for Ateneo’s Leaders for Health Program , and a Senior Lecturer at the Department of Psychiatry in the University of Melbourne . 26 June 2007 . Last accessed 27 June 2007 . Last accessed 27 June 2007 . 