Athabasca University , headquartered in Athabasca , Alberta , is a fully accredited institution specialized in the delivery of distance education courses and programs . Athabasca University is also recognized as one of the fastest growing universities in Canada . Courses are offered in both English and French . The university is especially popular with students who are disabled , overseas , or looking after family members , single parents who need a degree to get ahead in their careers , members of the Canadian Forces , Olympic competitors , athletes , students who are working full time and students who need an extra course to add on to their degrees or diplomas at a traditional university . A high school diploma is not required for admission ; however , there is an age minimum of sixteen years . Created by the Alberta government in 1970 , Athabasca University was formed when a fourth traditional university could n't be justified . New teaching and learning ideas for post - secondary students were studied and considered . Finally a pilot project was developed starting in 1972 in which students enrolled , to see if the community liked the idea of this new concept of teaching . After being considered a success , the university was granted a permanent , self - governing status in 1978 . After growing too big for its location , Athabasca University moved 145 kilometres north from Edmonton to the town of Athabasca , Alberta in 1984 where it is now established . Satellite centers are in Calgary and Edmonton . The university has become a leader in distance education . Its flexible programs which are geared to continuing education using modern communications technology , have attracted participation by students from around the world . The university is a leader in on - line study programs and has a special dedicated web site for that purpose . Students at the University write their exams in a different way than a regular university . They can write them at any one of the three learning centres , or by arranging to do it at a local college or university . Individual study : Students are provided with the textbooks , computer software , and video material required . A pre - set recommended schedule comes with each course in a " course reader " . The student is then free to study as they wish . Students have up to 6 months to finish their course , unless they have received a student loan , in which case , they have up to 4 months . Courses start at the beginning of each month . Grouped study : Offered primarily to students physically in Alberta , this method allows students to get together with other students in the same course , and study in a manner similar to that of a regular university . Students studying in this method have up to 4 months to complete their course . Courses start in September and January . AU is recognized as a leader in distance education among North American universities . Their programs are appreciated by students who work full - time and wish to pursue studies towards a degree because of the flexibility distance learning provides to such students . In 2004 , Athabasca 's Executive MBA was rated in the top 75 by the Financial Times , the only executive MBA on the list that is delivered entirely online . Canada 's only exclusively open University . Maclean 's Magazine called it Canada 's fastest growing university 