The George H. Atkinson Graduate School of Management is the MBA program at Willamette University , one of only two MBA programs in the world accredited for both Business Administration ( AACSB International ) and Public Administration ( NASPAA ) . This graduate program was established in 1974 . Housed in the Seeley G. Mudd Building on the west end of the Willamette University campus in Salem , Atkinson offers several different graduate programs . The school offers full - time , part - time , and evening enrollment . MBA programs include Professional ( PMBA ) , Accelerated , and Full - time with focuses in accounting , finance , general management , human resources , information systems , marketing , organizational analysis , public management , international management , and quantitative analysis / management science . The school also offers a four - year joint MBA - JD degree in association with the Willamette University College of Law . Additionally , in association with the law school Atkinson students may earn a certificate in dispute resolution . Atkinson offers two study abroad programs , Copenhagen Business School in Denmark and Bordeaux Business School in France . In addition to student programs , AGSM also offers an Executive Development Center ( EDC ) designed to educate businesses and organizations as consultants to those groups . Atkinson has an enrollment of 115 students with an average age of 25 years old . Students have an average entering GPA of 3.30 and Graduate Management Admission Test ( GMAT ) score of 597 . Female students make up 43 % of those enrolled . Select students are eligible for induction into Beta Gamma Sigma , the honor society for business students . AGSM is accredited by the AACSB in business , by NASPAA for government and not for profit administration , and the law school has been accredited by the American Bar Association since 1938 . Featured as one of the " best business schools " in the Vault.com Business School Buzz Book . Selected as one of the top 91 programs for preparing MBA 's for social and environmental stewardship by " Beyond Grey Pinstripes. " . Ranked 28th for the specialty of " Public Affairs , Public Finance and Budgeting " by U.S. News & World Reports . 