Atlanta Metropolitan College is a Community College in the University System of Georgia . Located along the Metropolitan Parkway corridor in southwest Atlanta , Atlanta Metropolitan College is a two - year urban , commuter campus providing an affordable education to students who primarily come from metropolitan Atlanta . Its high academic standards combined with its accessibility and relevant educational programs make it an outstanding value for students interested in earning an associate 's degree or preparing to move on to a four - year institution . With an enrollment of 2,000 , the student body is non - traditional and diverse . Women are in the majority , as are African - American students , and 93 percent are Georgia residents . But the college attracts students from a number of foreign countries , adding to the rich ethnic and cultural atmosphere of the campus . More than half of the students attend classes full - time . The campus is nestled on 67 acres and is a quaint , beautifully landscaped , compact community . Five major buildings house classrooms , administrative offices and student common areas . The burgeoning community along the Metropolitan Parkway corridor is undergoing a major transformation and continues to strengthen , flourish and rebuild daily . The college offers more than 60 courses of study in the fields of business , humanities and fine arts , natural science and mathematics and social science . Accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools , Atlanta Metropolitan College awards the associate of art and associate of science degrees through its transfer program track . Students also may pursue an associate of applied science degree through the institution 's career program track . Students find their niche participating in dozens of approved honorary , professional and social student clubs and organizations , including Student Government Association , Phi Theta Kappa National Honor Society , Students In Free Enterprise ( SIFE ) , College Choir , the International Students Organization and the student newspaper , Newscope.In addition , Atlanta Metropolitan College has a strong record in intercollegiate athletics and holds four championships in the Georgia Junior College Athletic Association Conference for men 's basketball . Founded in 1974 as part of the University System of Georgia , Atlanta Junior College was renamed Atlanta Metropolitan College in 1988 . 