Auburn University ( AU or Auburn ) is a state university located in Auburn , Alabama , USA . With more than 23,000 students and 1,200 faculty , it is the largest university in the state , and according to U.S. News & World Report , has a selectivity rating of " more selective. " . Auburn was chartered on February 1 , 1856 , as the East Alabama Male College , a private liberal arts school affiliated with the Methodist Episcopal Church , South . The college was donated to the state of Alabama in 1872 , when it became the state 's public land - grant university under the Morrill Act and was renamed the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Alabama . In 1892 , the college became the first four - year coeducational school in the state . The college was renamed the Alabama Polytechnic Institute ( API ) in 1899 . In 1960 , its name was officially changed to Auburn University , as it had long been popularly known . Auburn is one of only 13 American universities designated as a land - grant , sea - grant , and space - grant research center . API Cadets drill on Ross Square in 1917 . Auburn University was chartered by the Alabama Legislature as the East Alabama Male College on May 6 , 1856 , coming under the guidance of the Methodist Church in 1859 . The first president of the institution was Reverend William J. Sasnett , and the school opened its doors in 1859 to a student body of eighty and a faculty of ten . The early history of Auburn is inextricably linked with the Civil War and the Reconstruction era South . Classes were held in " Old Main " until the college was closed due to the Civil War , when most of the students and faculty left to enlist . The campus was used as a training ground for the Confederate Army , and " Old Main " served as a hospital for Confederate wounded . To commemorate Auburn 's contribution to the Civil War , a cannon lathe used for the manufacture of cannons for the Confederate Army and recovered from Selma , Alabama , was presented to Auburn in 1952 by brothers of Delta Chapter of the Alpha Phi Omega fraternity . It sits today on the lawn next to Samford Hall . The school was reopened in 1866 following the end of the Civil War and has been open ever since . In 1872 , control of the institution was transferred from the Methodist Church to the State of Alabama for financial reasons . Alabama placed the school under the provisions of the Morrill Act as a land - grant institution , the first in the South to be established separate from the state university . This act provided for 240,000 acres ( 971 km² ) of Federal land to be sold in order to provide funds for an agricultural and mechanical school . As a result , in 1872 the school was renamed to the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Alabama . Under the provisions of this act , land - grant institutions were also supposed to teach military tactics and train officers for the United States military . In the late 1800s , most students at the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Alabama were enrolled in the cadet program , learning military tactics and training to become future officers . Each county in the state was allowed to nominate two cadets to attend the 