Augsburg College is a liberal arts college of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America located in Minneapolis , Minnesota . It was founded in 1869 in Marshall , Wisconsin as Augsburg Seminary and moved to Minneapolis in 1872 . Undergraduate classes first began in the fall of 1874 with the first class graduating in the spring of 1879 In 1893 Augsburg leaders formed the " Friends of Augsburg " , which became the Lutheran Free Church in 1897 . Women were first admitted to the college in 1921 . The school was officially known as Augsburg Seminary until 1942 when the name was change to Augsburg College and Theological Seminary although that name had been informally used since the 1920s . When the Lutheran Free Church merged with the American Lutheran Church in 1963 Augsburg Seminary merged with Luther Seminary in Saint Paul and the name of the school officially became Augsburg College . Augsburg College is located in the center of Minneapolis close to St. Paul with a program in Rochester as well . As the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America 's ( ELCA ) most diverse tertiary institution , Augsburg strives to educate both traditional and non - traditional students , offering undergraduate degrees in over 50 major areas of study . Majors in the Sciences , Business - related fields , and the teacher licensure program , which has been preparing K - 12 teachers since 1923 , are the most popular areas of study . Augsburg 's student body totals approximately 3,800 students . Reflecting its Minnesota location and historical roots , 88.5 % of students are white , and 32 % of students are Lutheran ; approximately 90 % come from inside Minnesota . However , the College makes strong attempts to diversify its student body and does of a range of students from diverse religious , cultural , and ethnic backgrounds , representing some 40 states , more than 40 foreign countries , and 24 tribal nations / reservations . This on - campus diversity is enhanced by Augsburg 's location in the Cedar - Riverside neighborhood , the Twin Cities ' most culturally diverse neighborhood . The largest concentration of Somali immigrants in the U.S. is located throughout the Augsburg neighborhood , and one of the largest urban American Indian populations is within one mile . The College has been designated as a Minnesota Indian Teacher Training Program site . The College 's location also provides access for all of Augsburg 's students to participate in community service , such as through Campus Kitchen , and internship experiences that not only enhance their classroom learning but also prepare them for life 's work in a multi - cultural society . Augsburg 's location in the heart of a major theatre center makes it an ideal place to study theatre arts . Students have the opportunity to explore the connections between theory and application through an annual series of events featuring visiting theatre professionals from throughout the Twin Cities and at attendance and internships at Twin Cities theatres . Augsburg students have opportunities for involvement in more than 50 clubs and organizations , including student academic societies , publications , student government , Campus Ministry , Pan - African and Pan - Asian Student Union , forensics , cheerleading , Amnesty International , Intertribal Student Union and the Hispanic / Latino Student Association . The Mission of Augsburg College is to nurture future leaders in service to the world by providing high quality educational opportunities , which are based in the liberal arts and 