Augusta State University is a public , four - year university located in Augusta , Georgia . The school was chartered as the Academy of Richmond County in 1783 . It opened in 1785 and offered collegiate - level classes from its earliest days . Graduates were accepted into colleges as sophomores or juniors . Studies were suspended during the Civil War and the building was used as a hospital for wounded soldiers . Operation of the academy was overseen by a board of trustees until 1909 , when control was passed to the Augusta Board of Education . The college - level classes continued to be overseen by a committee of the state legislature . As enrollment increased , land for a second building was purchased . In 1925 , prior to completion of the new building , the Junior College of Augusta was established . In 1957 , the junior college separated from the academy and moved to its present location on Walton Way . In 1958 , the college became a part of the University System of Georgia and its name was formally changed to Augusta College . Augusta College remained a two - year college until 1963 , when it attained four - year status . An additional campus was added in 1991 to accommodate a greater number of students . In 1996 , Augusta College was renamed Augusta State University . The current president of the university is William A. Bloodworth , Jr. ( since 1993 ) . The early 21st century has seen substantial development of the campus , with over $90 million in new construction . First came the construction of a new science building , then the construction of Allgood Hall ( completed in 2002 , and named after the deceased politician Thomas F. Allgood ) , University Hall ( completed in 2004 ) , and the Jaguar Student Activities Center ( completed in 2006 ) . The university added housing in 2005 . ASU is organized into three colleges : Katherine Reese Pamplin College of Arts and Sciences , James M. Hull College of Business , and College of Education . Students can earn associate , bachelor , master , and specialist degrees in over 50 programs of study . There is an Honors Program for more gifted students , as well as a Cooperative Education program in which students alternate between classroom enrollment and real - life work experience in their field of study . Students also have opportunities for internships and study abroad programs . ASU has an enrollment of 6,564 . The average age is 25 for undergraduates and 35 for graduate students . ASU has a moderate degree of diversity , with 32 % minority enrollment ( of whom 24 % are African American ) . The U.S. News and World Report has twice ranked the college among the top 12 universities in the South for cultural diversity . Although most students come from Georgia , nearly every state and about 60 countries are represented in the student body . Students from Edgefield and Aiken counties in South Carolina pay the Georgia in - state tuition rate . Reese Library , the information center of Augusta State University , provides a wide variety of services for students . Thousands of journals , newspaper articles and books are available in electronic full - text through GALILEO , an initiative of the University System of Georgia . In support of student learning and research there is a collection of more than 503,000 print and online books , plus an 