Augustana College is a small liberal arts college , with a current enrollment of approximately 2,400 students . Covering 115 acres ( 465,000 m² ) of hilly , wooded land , Augustana is adjacent to the Mississippi River in Rock Island , Illinois . A large percentage of the student body takes part in a wide variety of groups and activities related to the performing arts , theatre , debate , publications , broadcasting , student government , and a broad spectrum of professional , religious , departmental , political , social , and service organizations . Swedish immigrants founded the College in 1860 . Augustana is a college of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and is the alma mater of Daniel C. Tsui , the recipient of the 1998 Nobel Prize in Physics . Augustana College is the home of the Augustana Choir , which was founded in 1931 and is known for its performances of a cappella choral music . Among the choir 's many accomplishments are a performance at Carnegie Hall and several trips to Sweden . In addition to the numerous other music performance groups on campus , including the Augustana Symphony Orchestra , the Augustana Symphonic Band , founded in 1875 , is the oldest . During World War I , members of the band enlisted as a unit in the American Armed Forces . During that time they not only saw action , but also gave a concert tour after the Armistice was signed . In 1928 , the Band became one of the first American collegiate bands to tour in Europe . Augustana College houses the Fryxell Geology Museum and John Deere Planetarium . The museum , named after Fritiof Fryxell , has become one of the largest and finest collections of rocks , minerals and fossils in the Midwest . Founded in the late 1880s with a small collection devoted to natural history , the museum now contains over 1,500 rock , mineral , and fossil specimens . On display is a complete skeleton of a Tylosaurus " sea serpent " , skulls of Parasaurolophus , Ankylosaurus , Apatosaurus , Allosaurus and Tyrannosaurus rex and a 2 billion year old fossil . Of particular interest is the display of the complete 22 - foot long skeleton of Cryolophosaurus , a large crested carnivorous dinosaur discovered in Antarctica in 1991 by Augustana paleontologist Dr. William Hammer . Augustana College is also home to the Swenson Center , a national archives and research institute providing various resources for the study of Swedish immigration to North America , the communities the immigrants established , and the history and culture of Swedish immigrants and their descendants in America . Augustana College is also very proud to claim the best hills to sled on in all of the Midwest region . In 2006 , Augustana College 's Thomas Tredway Library was selected as the winner of the Association of College & Research Libraries ' " Excellence in Academic Libraries Award " for four - year colleges . The Augustana Vikings compete in the NCAA Division III College Conference of Illinois and Wisconsin ( CCIW ) . The Vikings compete in a combined total of 21 male and female team sports , and four out of five students compete in some form of varsity , club , or intramural sport . The Augustana College football team won four NCAA Division III national championships in a row from 1983 - 1986 under Coach Bob Reade . Coach Reade 's overall winning percentage of 87 % is second only 