Aurora University in Aurora , Illinois , USA is a private liberal arts college that admits both male and female students to four - year undergraduate , master 's and doctoral degree programs . Aurora University has two campuses : the main campus in Aurora , Illinois and the George Williams campus in Williams Bay , Wisconsin near Lake Geneva , Wisconsin . Aurora University is organized into three colleges : the College of Arts and Sciences , the College of Education , and the College of Professional Studies . The College of Professional Studies is itself organized into four schools : the Dunham School of Business , the School of Nursing , the School of Health and Physical Education , and the School of Social Work . Aurora University is on a semester academic year with additional May term and either an additional full summer semester or two half - summer terms , depending on the course . Aurora University was originally founded Mendota Seminary in Mendota , Illinois in 1893 for the training of ministers and lay workers of the Advent Christian Church . In its first few years , the seminary changed its name to Mendota College and open its enrollment to the public as a liberal - arts college . In 1911 , citizens of Aurora donated land for the construction of a new college . Also that same year , Charles Eckhart , who founded the predecesssor of the Auburn Automobile Company , donated money to build the first buildings of what was to become in 1912 Aurora College , the relocated former Mendota College . In 1971 Aurora College legally separated from the Advent Christian Church . In 1985 , Aurora College changed its name to Aurora University and organized its degree - granting programs into three colleges . In 1992 , George Williams College , a college established in 1890 by the Young Men 's Christian Association ( YMCA ) merged into Aurora University . Originally founded as the YMCA Training School in Chicago , Illinois , it became the YMCA College in 1913 and George Williams College in 1933 before moving near Lake Geneva , Wisconsin . Aurora University sponsors 19 teams , which are named the Spartans . The Spartan football team participates in the Illini - Badger Conference and all other Spartans teams participate , as of the 2006 - 2007 season , in the Northern Athletics Conference , which comprises teams from the former Northern Illinois—Iowa Conference and the Lake Michigan Conference . Francis •Saint Joseph 's •Saint Mary of the Lake •St . 