This article is about the university in Clarksville , Tennessee named for former governor of Tennessee Austin Peay . For an article on that governor , see Austin Peay . Austin Peay State University is an accredited public university located in Clarksville , Tennessee , and operated by the Tennessee Board of Regents . The school began when the former Southwestern Presbyterian College moved to Memphis in 1925 ( where it is now known as Rhodes College ) , leaving its former campus in Clarksville unoccupied . In 1929 , area civic and political leaders encouraged the state of Tennessee to purchase the facility and operate it as a public normal school for the training of schoolteachers . This was done , and the institution was renamed in honor of former governor Austin Peay who had died in office in 1927 , which many attributed at least in part to stress due to his battles with the state legislature over education issues . The school thus began with the formal name of Austin Peay State Normal School for Rural White Teachers . Racial desegregation , among other factors , led to a name change to Austin Peay State College , and the institution was granted university status in 1967 . The school grew greatly in the late 1940s and 1950s , largely due to veterans attending under the G. I. Bill of Rights , which gave the school a large number of male students for the first time , schoolteaching at the time of the school 's founding having been a largely - female occupation . At the same time , several fields of study in areas beyond education were introduced into the curriculum . Much of the recent growth of the school has been in conjunction with programs conducted in conjunction with the United States Army at nearby Fort Campbell . The school 's athletic teams , most of which compete in the Ohio Valley Conference ( OVC ) , are known as the " Governors " in honor of the school 's namesake . The school 's popular cheer is , " Let 's go , Peay ! " . The football team had participated in the Pioneer Football League , but on April 8 , 2005 announced that it was leaving the Pioneer League at the conclusion of the 2005 season and that the football program would rejoin the Ohio Valley Conference in 2007 . The basketball Govs and Lady Govs have a long tradition of excellence in the OVC . Coach Dave Loos has led Austin Peay to two NCAA tournament berths , on the way to becoming one of the most respected coaches in the conference , as well as its winningest coach . Notable players such as Trenton Hassell and Bubba Wells continue to emerge from the program . In July - August of 2006 , the Tennessee Titans had their first training camp on the campus . The site of Austin Peay State University has also been the site of Clarksville 's first educational institutions , Rural Academy ( 1806 - 1810 ) and Mount Pleasant Academy ( 1811 - 1824 ) . Later , Clarksville Academy ( 1825 - 1848 ) , Masonic College , ( 1849 - 1850 ) , Montgomery County Masonic College , ( 1851 - 1854 ) , and Stewart College ( 1855 - 1874 ) would occupy this area until the arrival of Southwestern Presbyterian University ( 1875 - 1925 ) . As of January 2007 , Sherry Hoppe announced her resignation of the APSU presidency , 