Austin College is a private liberal arts college affiliated with the Presbyterian Church USA located in Sherman , Texas , an hour north of Dallas . A small , yet well respected institution , Austin Collge emphasizes academic excellence , high achievement , intellectual and personal integrity , and participation in community life.The undergraduate student body of Austin College ( referred to as " AC " by students and faculty , never " Austin " ) is limited to about 1,250 . Most students are required to live on campus for the first three years in an attempt to create a close - knit community . Austin College actively promotes various study abroad programs ; 70 % of students study abroad during their four years at the college . The college states that it attempts to foster the close interaction between the students and professors . Most of the professors at Austin college are focused on teaching , as opposed to research . They are not required to exhibit any particular strengths in their respective fields by publishing articles or books . The college maintains a 12:1 student to faculty ratio and the average class size is less than 25 students . The college has no teaching assistants , so regular faculty teach all levels of coursework . Chartered in November 1849 , it is the oldest college in Texas under original charter and name as recognized by the State Historical Survey Committee . The college was founded on October 13 , 1849 in Huntsville , Texas by Princeton - educated missionary Daniel Baker . The college moved to Sherman in 1876 and became co - educational in 1918 , merging in 1930 with the all female Texas Presbyterian College . Baker named the school after Texas hero Stephen F. Austin and his sister Emily , who deeded 1,500 acres of land to the college . Another important figure in Texas History , Sam Houston , served on the original board of trustees for the school . The college was the first in Texas to grant a graduate degree , and is also one of the oldest colleges in the state . The current president of Austin College is Dr. Oscar C. Page , who has held the position since 1994 . He is known for often appearing at student events and athletic games to show his support , and visited the service group who traveled to New Orleans over spring break in 2006 to provide relief from Hurricane Katrina , where he helped in the repairs . U.S. News & World Report ranked Austin College among the top 100 colleges in the category of " Best Liberal Arts Colleges " for 2006 . Austin College also ranked among the " Best 361 Colleges " in the 2006 Princeton Review , was profiled in Loren Pope 's Colleges That Change Lives , and was profiled in the 2005 edition of Kaplan 's Unbiased Guide to the 331 Most Interesting Colleges . Austin College is also ninth on the U.S. News ' 2006 list for " most students studying abroad. " . It is a member of the International 50 , a group of the top colleges in the nation for international focus . Austin College offers about 35 majors and pre - professional programs for study , and students can also create a specialized major to match their academic interests . The college is known for its nationally recognized five - year Master of Arts in Teaching program , its pre - medical , international studies , and pre - 