The Australian National University , or ANU , is a public university located in Canberra , Australia . It was created 1 August 1946 as a postgraduate research university . In 1960 undergraduate education was added to the ANU by amalgamation with the Canberra University College . The University is governed by a 15 member Council . ANU is a member of Australia 's Group of Eight , the Association of Pacific Rim Universities , the Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy and the International Alliance of Research Universities . In 2006 , the Times Higher Education Supplement and Newsweek ranked ANU 16th and 38th in the world respectively , and both indicies have ranked it as the top university in Australia . The ANU was established by an act of federal Parliament.The Australian National University Act 1946 - 47 was introduced into parliament by the then Prime Minister , Ben Chifley , and Minister for Post - war Reconstruction , J.J. Dedman . The bill was passed on 1 August 1946 with support from Opposition Leader Robert Menzies . A group of eminent Australian scholars were involved in the infancy of the ANU , including a leader in radar development and nuclear physics , Sir Mark Oliphant ; the discoverer of the benefits of penicillin , Sir Howard Florey ; eminent historian , Sir Keith Hancock ; and renowned economist and public servant , Herbert ‘Nugget’ Coombs . In 1960 , ANU began offering undergraduate degree programs . Academic leaders have included Professors : Manning Clark ( historian ) ; Bart Bok ( astronomer ) and Hanna Neumann ( mathematician ) . Notable alumni include current leader of the opposition in Australian Parliament , Kevin Rudd . The academic structure of the ANU is made up of three parts : The Institute of Advanced Studies , The Faculties and the University Centres . The Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics ( RSAA ) is based at the Mount Stromlo Observatory . RSAA runs ANU 's telescopes at the Siding Spring Observatory , in NSW . On Thursday 20 April , 2006 it was reported that the Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics would build the world 's most powerful telescope . This project is a collaboration between an elite international group of research institutions which also includes the University of Arizona , Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and Harvard University . Research is carried out in areas such as agriculture , environment , health and technology . The Research School of Earth Sciences ( RSES ) is one of the top ten university geoscience programs in the world . The Research School of Information Sciences and Engineering ( RSISE ) contains the Department of Information Engineering and the Computer Sciences Laboratory . The Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies ( RSPAS ) is Australia 's leading centre for research and postgraduate training on the Asia Pacific region . Priority research areas include Northeast Asia , Southeast Asia , South Asia and the Southwest Pacific . The Research School of Physical Sciences and Engineering ( RSPhysSE ) . The school 's primary research areas are : materials science and engineering ; lasers , nonlinear optics and photonics ; nanotechnology and mesoscopic physics ; physics of atoms , molecules and the nucleus ; plasma physics and surface science ; physics and the environment . The Research School of Social Sciences ( RSSS ) concentrates on theoretical and empirical research in the social sciences . The following programs exist within the school : Demography & Sociology , Economics , History , Law 