The Australian Defence Force Academy ( ADFA ) is a tri - service military Academy that provides military and tertiary academic education for junior officers of the Australian Defence Force in the Royal Australian Navy ( RAN ) , Australian Regular Army ( ARA ) and Royal Australian Air Force ( RAAF ) . It also provides post - graduate study for civilians , more senior ADF personnel and public servants . It is associated with the University of New South Wales , which is the awarding body for ADFA qualifications . The stated purpose of ADFA is " to serve Australia by providing the Australian Defence Force ( ADF ) with tertiary graduates who have the foundational attributes , intellect and skills required of an officer. " . ADFA is located in the Australian capital city of Canberra , in the suburb of Campbell near the Australian Government district of Russell . It is situated next to Mount Pleasant which gives some parts of ADFA a view over the rest of Canberra . The ADFA is also adjacent to the Australian Army military academy , the Royal Military College , Duntroon . The junior officers that attend the Australian Defence Force Academy hold the rank of Officer Cadet in the Australian Army ( OCDT ) and the Royal Australian Air Force ( OFFCDT ) , and the rank Midshipman ( MIDN ) in the Royal Australian Navy . The Academy is currently commanded by Acting Commandant Captain Pete Murray , RAN . In the late 1950s ( b ) investigations were made into the feasibility of creating a tri - service cadet training institution . However , each service continued with separate cadet training institution until 1970 ( e ) , when the concept was followed up by a committee chaired by Sir Leslie Martin . In 1977 ( r ) the then Chief of the Defence Force , Air Chief Marshal Sir Neville McNamara , formally established the Australian Defence Force Academy as a Joint Service Unit under Section 32c of the Defence Act 1903 . He simultaneously announced the appointment of Rear Admiral P.R. Sinclair , Royal Australian Navy as the Commandant . In September 1985 the Interim Academy Council ceased its functions and the Australian Defence Force Academy Council held its inaugural meeting under the Chairmanship of Sir Edward Woodward.In 1986 ( n ) , ADFA opened and began providing military and tertiary academic education for Officer Cadets and Midshipmen . In late 2003 , the Australian Department of Defence entered into another agreement with the University of New South Wales for the operation of University College at ADFA . Over its history ADFA has been criticised for various reasons , such as the reason for the Grey Review - bastardisation . In 1998 , the Department of Defence released the Grey review , a report about bastardisation and sexual harassment at ADFA during the 80s and early 90s . In doing so , it also examined relevant cultural , structural and management issues at ADFA . Having found evidence of bastardisation , and of a failure to recognise and prevent such bastardisation by staff , the review received considerable attention from the national media , and thereby caused considerable damage to the Academy 's reputation . In July of 2006 , Lt. Commander Robyn Fahey - Australia 's first female naval officer - was awarded an undisclosed amount in compensation for abuses suffered during her service in the ADF , including instances of physical and verbal abuse suffered at ADFA . ADFA attracted further criticism 