Australian Catholic University , or ACU National , is Australia 's only public Catholic university . It has more than 13,000 students and 900 staff on six campuses located in three states and the Australian Capital Territory . ACU National , which is open to all staff and students regardless of their religious beliefs , is affiliated with the Association of Commonwealth Universities and the International Federation of Catholic Universities . The University was formed in 1991 by the amalgamation of four Catholic institutes of higher education in Queensland , New South Wales , Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory . ACU National and its predecessor institutions have played an important role in Australia by training many teachers and nurses employed in the public , Catholic and other health systems . The university 's Mission aims to add a " spiritual dimension " to higher education in Australia , similar to the aims of the great Catholic universities of Europe and North America . There is a strong social justice element in the university 's Mission and programs . The Catholic schooling system in Australia developed in parallel with the state education systems in the 19th century . Australian Catholics , predominantly of Irish descent , wanted to educate their children in their faith in a country where Protestants were in the ascendancy . When state aid was stopped to Catholic schools in the late 19th century , the Catholic bishops sent for Irish brothers and nuns to staff their schools . Until the mid - 20th century , the majority of teachers in Australian Catholic schools were members of religious orders , including the Christian Brothers , Sisters of Mercy , Dominicans and Marist Brothers . The predecessors of ACU National were established as religious institutes to train Australian youth for religious life and to staff Catholic schools and hospitals . The first of these was established in 1850 , a year before Australia 's first university , the University of Sydney . In the mid - 20th century , these colleges began to admit lay students , and the Catholic Teacher Training Colleges were established from the former religious institutes . By the 1980s these were known as Colleges of Advanced Education ( CAEs ) . The Dawkins Reforms of the late 1980s and a desire of the Federal government to deal with one Catholic institution led to the merger of these former CAEs to become the Australian Catholic University . More than 20 historical entities shaped the creation of the university . The four institutions that amalgamated to become ACU National were the Catholic College of Education Sydney in New South Wales , the Institute of Catholic Education in Victoria , McAuley College of Queensland , and Signadou College of Education in the Australian Capital Territory . Australian Catholic University opened its doors on January 1 , 1991 . Originally there were eight campuses ; the merger of the two Melbourne campuses Mercy at Ascot Vale and Christ at Oakleigh led to the creation of the Melbourne Campus ( St Patrick 's ) in Fitzroy . There were formerly three campuses in Sydney . The Castle Hill campus was closed and staff and students moved to Strathfield and North Sydney . In 2003 , the McAuley campus moved from the Brisbane suburb of Mitchelton to larger accommodations in the suburb of Banyo . ACU National was adopted as the acronym of the University in 2001 to distinguish it from other bodies using ' ACU ' and to emphasise its unique position as a national Australian University . 