The Autonomous University of Barcelona ( Catalan : ' Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona ' , Spanish : Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona , UAB ) is a public university mostly located in Bellaterra , near the city of Barcelona in Spain . As of 2005 , it consists of 50 departments in the experimental , life , social and human sciences , spread among 11 faculties and three university schools . All these centers together award a total of 77 qualifications in the form of first degrees , diplomas , and engineering degrees . Moreover , almost 90 doctoral programs and more than 100 other postgraduate programs are offered . UAB gathers more than 50,000 students and more than 3,000 academic and research staff . The UAB is a pioneering institution in terms of fostering research . There are many research institutes in the campus , as well as other research centers , technical support services and service - providing laboratories . Most UAB academic activity is done in Bellaterra campus , Vallès Occidental . Several centres exist in Manresa , Sabadell , Terrassa , Sant Cugat del Vallès and Barcelona . The UAB campus is about 30 km away from the centre of Barcelona . It is accessible by air ( flights to Barcelona , Girona , or Reus ) , by train ( Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat , RENFE ) , by coach ( SARBUS ) , or by car ( AP - 7 and C - 58 motorways ) . The Autonomous University of Barcelona is officially created by legislative decree on June 6 1968 . Previously , during the Second Spanish Republic , there had been plans for constituting a second university in Barcelona , but due to the Civil War and the following years of poverty under the early dictatorship did not allow these plans to become a reality until that year . On July 27 , a disposition to the decree is added , stating the creation of the Faculty of Letters , the Faculty of Medicine , the Faculty of Science , and the Faculty of Economical Sciences . Around ten weeks later , on October 6 , the first course of the Faculty of Letters is inaugurated at Sant Cugat del Vallès Monastery . During the same month , the Faculty of Medicine is set at the Hospital de Sant Pau in Barcelona . In 1969 , an agreement is signed for the acquisition of the terrains where the University Campus is nowadays . During that year too , the Faculty of Sciences and the Faculty of Economical Sciences start running . During the following three years , several Faculties and Professional Schools are created , and the construction works at the Campus terrains take place . At the end of this period , most existing Faculties and Schools are settled in the campus . At the end of the dictatorship in 1976 , the University introduces a plan to create a model of democratic , independent university , described in a document known as Bellaterra Manifesto , which includes a declaration of principles . Two years later , after the approval of the Catalan Statute , the University Council agrees to recourse to the Generalitat de Catalunya . During the period between 1985 and 1992 the University undergoes several Faculty reforms and the creation of several new Faculties . In 1993 the Universitary Ville is inaugurated as a students residence integrated inside the Campus complex . Autonomous University of Barcelona for foreign students on iAgora - Reviews by former Erasmus and other 