The Autonomous University of Madrid ( Spanish : Universidad Autónoma de Madrid ) commonly known by its Spanish initials UAM or as " la Autónoma " is a Spanish Public University established in 1968 , along with the Autonomous Universities of Barcelona and Bilbao ( now University of the Basque Country ) in the frame of one of Spain’s most ambitious educational reforms , which took place during the late 1960s and the early 1970s . UAM 's Cantoblanco Campus holds most of the university’s facilities . It is located 15km north of Madrid and has an extension of over 2,200,000 m² , of which nearly 770,000 are urbanised and about third of them garden areas . The campus was projected as a university town that was to be self sufficient but also away from Madrid in order to keep student activity against the Francoist dictatorship away from the city . Initially the campus held the faculties of Philosophy and Liberal Arts ; Law ; Economics ; Business Management and Science , as well as the rectorate , several other service buildings and sports facilities . Remaining are the Faculty of Medicine and the Teacher Training School “Santa Maria” in downtown Madrid , as well as two other Teacher Training Schools in Segovia and Cuenca . Over the years , the Faculty of Psychology , the Biology Building of the Faculty of Sciences , the New Faculty of Law ( that allowed the transfer of the Teacher Training School to the main Campus ) along with its Political Science annex building , The Superior Polytechnic School ( initially Superior Technical School of Computing Engineers ) , the libraries of Humanities and Sciences and the Erasmus of Rotterdam Dormitory have been built on the campus . The original faculties where built in interconnected buildings , with several patios in between them . Characteristic of the building is the large number of stairs in its corridors , initially designed to prevent students from running in case of police raids . Currently , this fact has been considered by many university officials as a setback in the integration of handicapped students . The newest facilities are built in a contemporary style , being more accessible and allowing more free movement to students . Sporting facilities include two swimming pools ( an indoor one and an outdoor one ) ; two multiple use pavilions ; and outdoor tennis , football , basketball , paddle tennis , rugby , and futsal and beach volleyball courts . Other services on campus include 16 cafeterias and other eating facilities , medical services , a pharmacy with optic care , a foreign languages pavilion and a bookstore . The campus also houses several research facilities partnered with The Spanish Scientific Research Council ( CSIC ) . Cantoblanco Campus is accessible by train in Renfe Cercanias Commuter service ( station Cantoblanco - Universidad ) , or by the Madrid Region Commuter Bus service . The campus is located in the B1 area of the Madrid Transports Consortium . UAM Faculty of Medicine is located north of Madrid near La Paz Teaching Hospital ( that acts as the Faculty’s main , but not only , teaching hospital ) . It was inaugurated in 1970 . Juan Luis Vives Residence Hall was UAM’s first residential facility . It is located in the Plaza Castilla area , in northern Madrid . It has 130 residents and holds several cultural activities of the university . It is used for conferences and meetings and is the main centre of UAM’s summer courses . The 