Averett University was a private Christian college in Danville , Virginia , USA , in south - central Virginia near the North Carolina border , but is no longer affiliated with its Baptist roots . In 2006 , US News and World Report ranked Averett as Universities–Master 's ( South ) , third tier . The school was chartered in 1859 as Union Female College and became affiliated with the Baptist General Association of Virginia in 1910 . The school 's name was changed to Averett College and received accreditation as a junior college in 1917 . Accreditation by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools followed in 1928 . Averett became a coeducational four - year college in 1969 and offered its first graduate programs in the 1980s . The school changed its name to Averett University in 2001 . In 2005 , the Baptist General Association of Virginia dissolved their ties with Averett after two years of growing disagreement over homosexuality . In 2005 , 84 % of applicants were admitted . Applications are accepted on a rolling basis . Averett offers associate 's and bachelor 's degrees in a variety of fields , a Master of Education degree and a Master of Business Administration degree . Averett 's main campus is a 19 - acre campus adjacent to the Millionaire 's Row neighborhood of Danville , Virginia . The 70 - acre North Campus Athletic Center and Averett Flight Center at Danville Regional Airport are also located within Danville . The 100 - acre Equestrian Center in Pelham , NC lies just across the Virginia - North Carolina border . Averett 's adult education program , Graduate and Professional Studies ( GPS ) , has campus centers in Danville , Richmond and Tidewater . Classes are also offered in more than 25 locations around Virginia . The Averett Cougars play in NCAA Division III in the USA South Athletic Conference . Michael D. Dunlevy will be entering his sixth season as the Averett University Head Coach in 2007 and is already the winningest coach in Averett Football history . The architect of one of the greatest turnarounds in college football , Dunlevy took over a program with 3 wins in two seasons and brought Averett its first football championship in 2006 . In the last two seasons the Cougars are 14 - 6 and have won 10 of their last 11 conference contests . Dunlevy has more than 18 seasons of coaching experience at the college level . The 1987 graduate from Otterbein College in Ohio most recently served as Defensive Coordinator and Assistant Head Coach at Waynesburg College in Waynesburg , PA. Dunlevy served as an assistant at Waynesburg from 1994 - 2001 . He joined a struggling Yellow Jacket program that had only 38 players , and used his recruiting skills to not only bolster the team numbers , but return focus to academic success as well as athletic success . Dunlevy also served as an Academic Advisor for student - athletes at Waynesburg , and organized alumni fund raising campaigns for the Yellow Jacket athletic programs . Dunlevy was part of a coaching staff that led the Yellow Jackets to four consecutive winning seasons and a 1998 Presidents Athletic Conference Championship . Prior to joining Waynesburg , Dunlevy served as special teams coordinator / linebackers coach for the Ohio Glory of the World Football League ( which is now NFL Europe ) . He also served on the coaching staffs of The Ohio State University and The University of Toledo . Dunlevy has used 