Avila University is a private university in Kansas City , Missouri sponsored by the Sisters of St. Joseph of Carondelet . It offers Bachelor 's degrees in thirty - six majors and Master 's degrees : Master of Science in Counseling Psychology , Master of Business Administration , Master of Science in Organizational Development , and Master of Arts in Education . Avila is located in the southern portion of Kansas City , Missouri . The campus presents a unique student body with approximately 200 of the 1,800 students living on campus in Carondelet and Ridgway Halls . Many of the remaining 1,600 students are non - traditional students who participate in the Avila Advantage program which is aimed at students who need evening and weekend classes in order to complete their degrees . Student life at Avila is quite active with more than 30 student organizations available to the student body , including the Black Student Union , Group Activities Programming , Residence Hall Association , and Campus Ministries . Carondelet Hall was the first residence hall built at the current Avila University location . It currently houses students on co - ed floors with community bathrooms . Each floor has a resident assistant to help with student needs . The building also houses one professional staff member on the first floor . Carondelet houses up to 122 students at its maximum capacity . In the summer of 2005 the first two floors of the hall were renovated to fit the more modern version of a residence hall . The third floor is scheduled to be renovated in the summer of 2007 . Ridgway Hall was built only a few years after Carondelet Hall . Currently Ridgway Hall features two all - men floors and one all - women floor . Each floor has a resident assistant to help with student needs . The building also houses one professional staff member on the first floor . When the building was built the floors were designated as the fourth , fifth , and sixth floors to continue the numbering that began in Carondelet . The floors are still known as this today . Jeanne Collins Thompson Hall is scheduled to open in Fall 2007 . This building will feature 16 suites of four residents each . Resident students are invited to participate in the Residence Hall Association . RHA acts as the student government for the residence halls . In addition to the executive committee , each floor has a representative whom attends RHA meetings . This provides residents with a forum where they can voice their opinions and make positive moves towards the changes and improvements they would like to see in the halls . The residence halls are a thriving community where students become a tight knit group and have the opportunity to interact with a diverse group of peers . 