Avondale College is an Australian tertiary education provider affiliated with the Seventh - day Adventist Church . Avondale College has three campuses , Lake Macquarie being the primary campus situated in Cooranbong , NSW , Australia . The other campuses are the Sydney campus located at the Sydney Adventist Hospital in Wahroonga , Sydney , housing most of the faculty of nursing and health , and the Hunter Valley campus located just north - west of Cessnock housing the school of Aviation . Avondale College primarily focuses in the areas of teaching , theology , and nursing , but also offers bachelor 's degrees in business , science and the arts as well as certificate studies in outdoor recreation , aviation and secretarial studies . The nursing programme commences at the Cooranbong campus for one semester and is completed at the Sydney Adventist Hospital with hands - on experience gained in the hospital . Master 's degrees are offered in theology , education , nursing , ministry , and some business related fields by distance education , including a one - month on - campus component in the winter semester . The college has recently been approved to offer PhDs . Avondale College is an institution under the South Pacific Division of Seventh - day Adventists . The library contains a local research centre of the Ellen G. White Estate . On the counsel of Ellen G. White a Bible school was commenced in Melbourne in the early 1890s . Ellen White preferred a rural location , and as a result a search for a rural location was commenced in 1893 . Finding land for a college seemed to be an impossible task , as the small church in Australia at the time did not have the finances to support such a project . Eventually the committee searching for the land found a 1500 acre ( 6 km² ) block of land near Cooranbong priced at $3 per acre ( $741 / km² ) because of its " poor , sandy and hungry " land . An agricultural expert from the government who was commissioned to look over the land reported that it was of extremely poor quality . The land was purchased in the Spring of 1895 , and the institution was initially called the Australasian Missionary College . A common myth is the furrow story , in which Ellen White was reported to have had a vision concerning the land . The Cooranbong shopping district and Freeman 's drive now occupy some of the land that was part of the Avondale Estate , creating a disjoint estate . The Avondale Schools ( a separate entity ) and the Cooranbong Aerodrome ( which up until recent times was used as part of the aviation certificate training ) are located on one section and the college on the other . The nearby Sunnyside museum has photographs of the college through its early years . There are a number of historic buildings that have been preserved on the Cooranbong campus . These include Bethel Hall and College Hall , both of which are unique multi - story wooden buildings.The refurbished Chan - Shun Auditorium is based on the original auditorium . Faculty of Theology . This is the primary place of training for ministers in the Seventh - day Adventist Church in Australia and New Zealand , and also has many students from the islands of the South Pacific . It is open to students of any denomination . Avondale College is currently in the process of applying for and receiving 