Azerbaijan State Oil Academy ( ASOA ) ( Azerbaijani : Azərbaycan Dövlət Neft Akademiyası ( ADNA ) ) is a public university located in Baku , Azerbaijan . The rise of what became ASOA tied to the rise of the petroleum industry in the Baku region . By 1887 the technical school that would become Baku Polytechnicum was established in Baku and by 1910 it had integrated a curriculum related to the growing oil industry . However , the ratio of Azeris to non - Azeris was so skewed that of the 494 students studying at the school in 1916 , only 20 were Azeri . On November 14 , 1920 , after the invasion of the Red Army and the establishment of the fledgling Azerbaijan SSR , the new government decreed that Baku Polytechnicum would close and be replaced by Baku Polytechnical Institute , a more traditional polytechnic institute and the beginnings of the current incarnation . The new school focused on training engineers in a a broad range of industries , from agriculture to oil . By 1923 the school graduated its first 3 students and by 1927 it had risen to 289 graduates . The new school went through many name changes over the years as its emphasis changed to meet the needs of Azerbaijan . In 1923 the school changed its name to Azerbaijan Polytechnical Institute . In 1929 the agriculture department was spun off into a separate Agriculture Institute and the university changed its name to the Azerbaijan Oil Institute ( AOI ) in 1930 . However , the expanding needs engineers in other areas outside oil resulted in expansion in the school 's curriculum and the school changed names again in 1934 , this time to the Azerbaijan Industrial Institute ( Az.I.I. ) . World War II taxed the Soviet Union and schools like Az.I.I. struggled to stay open . At the end of the War , there was great demand for oil engineers in the Soviet Union and the school trained them in great numbers . In 1952 , the government founded a separate Azerbaijan Polytechnical Institute and moved much of the non - petrochemical curricula to the new school so that Az.I.I. could focus on the oil industry . On February 12 , 1959 the school was renamed the Azerbaijan Oil and Chemistry Institute ( AzOCI ) . In the early 1960s an evening program was developed . This evening program developed into its own , separate public university in 1992 , reusing the name Azerbaijan Industrial Institute and becoming Sumgait State University . On March 21 , 1992 , after the independence of Azerbaijan from the Soviet Union , the university changed its name to the current ASOA . In 1993 the school changed its curricula into a more Western model , with its first bachelors and masters degree candidates graduating in 1997 . ASOA worked with Western universities to Westernize and modernize its programs , in particular with Georgia State University to develop a modern Masters of Business Administration program . ASOA currently has programs with a dozen international universities . 