Azusa Pacific University is a private Christian university located in Azusa , California , USA . It was founded in 1899 , with classes opening on March 3 , 1900 in Whittier , California . It began offering degrees in 1939 . APU holds regional accreditation by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges ( WASC ) . What is known today as Azusa Pacific University is the product of the merger of three Southern California - area Christian institutions : Azusa College , Los Angeles Pacific College , and Arlington College . Azusa Pacific University was established as the Training School for Christian Workers in 1889 in Whittier , California , the first Bible college on the West Coast . The purpose of the institution was to train students for service and missionary endeavors , and the initial class of students met on March 3 , 1900 . In 1939 the Training School became Pacific Bible College , and four - year degrees were offered . By the mid 1940s , Pacific Bible College had outgrown its campus and leadership purchased a 12 - acre school for girls in Azusa ; in 1956 , the name was changed to Azusa College . Azusa College merged first in 1965 with Los Angeles Pacific College and became Azusa Pacific College , and three years later , APC merged with Arlington College . Upon its achievement of university status in 1981 , the college changed its name to Azusa Pacific University . During that decade , off - site educational regional centers throughout Southern California were instated and master’s degree programs were first approved . University leadership in the 1990s focused on developing Azusa Pacific into a larger institution , offering not only undergraduate , but also graduate degrees , and during that decade the university’s first three doctoral programs were awarded . Student enrollment doubled , and graduate programs quadrupled throughout the decade . Under Wallace’s leadership , Azusa Pacific University continued to grow . The university now offers more than 50 areas of undergraduate study , 23 master’s degrees , and 7 doctorates to a total student population of more than 8,100 . In addition , Wallace’s vision emphasizes a commitment to partner with the city of Azusa and its citizens . Examples of the partnership include : The Neighborhood Wellness Center , a clinic that brings student nursing services to the public , and the Azusa Reads Program , which enlists students to teach local children how to read . APU has been recognized by several national reports and publications . For the sixth consecutive year , in 2007 Azusa Pacific secured a place in the Top 25 of U.S. News & World Report’s America’s Best Colleges and Western Universities - Master’s classification , ranking 15th . In 2006 , APU was recognized for the third year by Diverse Issues in Higher Education as one of the nation’s top schools in awarding degrees to minority students , ranking among the top 100 in 13 categories , including 10th for awarding Hispanic master’s degrees in education , and 81st for total minority master’s degrees awarded across all disciplines . For the third year in a row , The Princeton Review designated APU as 1 of 123 colleges in the 2007 Best in the West category . In 2006 , APU was 1 of 42 of the nation’s top schools recognized by U.S. News & World Report for Best Academic Programs for service learning , and in 2007 , 1 of the top 52 in the country for outstanding first - 