The Babcock Graduate School of Management is one of the graduate schools of Wake Forest University . Established in 1969 , it admitted its first classes of full - time and executive students in 1971 and presented its first graduating class in 1973 . The Babcock School was established with a gift from the Mary Reynolds Babcock Foundation and named in honor of Charles H. Babcock , a noted businessman and philanthropist who influenced civic , cultural and business development in Winston - Salem and North Carolina . In 1985 , the Babcock Graduate School of Management earned its accreditation from the AACSB , and in 1993 , the school moved into the newly constructed Worrell Professional Center , the first building in the nation to house both graduate business and law schools under one roof . In 1987 , Babcock launched its evening MBA program in Winston - Salem , followed by an evening MBA program in Charlotte in 1995 and a Saturday MBA program in Charlotte in 2004 . The school has offered an executive MBA program , now known as the Fast - Track Executive MBA Program , in Winston - Salem since the school opened . It is the oldest program of its kind in the Southeast . The Babcock School has long - standing relationships with leading international business schools including eight international programs that allow faculty and students from each school to teach and study at the other . The partner schools are Bordeaux School of Business , France ; EM - Lyon Graduate School of Management , France ; European Business School , Germany ; Indian Institute of Management - Calcutta , India ; Institute of Business Studies , Russia ; University of Kaiserslautern , Germany ; WHU - Otto Beisheim Graduate School of Management , Germany and Vienna University of Economics and Business Administration , Austria . The Babcock Graduate School of Management is consistently ranked among the world 's best graduate business schools . It is currently ranked # 7 by The Wall Street Journal , # 10 in the world by Beyond Grey Pinstripes ( for preparing its MBA graduates for social and environmental stewardship ) , and among the top 50 U.S. business schools by BusinessWeek , América Economia , Financial Times , The Economist , Forbes and U.S.News & World Report . Entrepreneurship - Entrepreneur Magazine ranked Babcock 's entrepreneurship programs # 17 in the nation , and Stan Mandel , director of the Angell Center for Entrepreneurship , has been recognized as the # 3 entrepreneurial program director in the country . Return on Investment - Forbes calculated that , on average , it takes Wake Forest 's full - time graduates 3.4 years to break even on their MBA investment , and ranked Babcock # 12 in the nation for evening MBA program return on investment . Technology - Based in part upon its far - reaching implementation of technology in the Babcock Graduate School of Management , Wake Forest University was declared a best - practice organization for technology usage by the American Productivity & Quality Center ( APQC ) and AACSB International . The Babcock School offers full - time , executive , evening and Saturday MBA programs to meet the needs of a variety of students . In addition , it offers an MA in Management and several joint degree programs . In all programs , most courses rely on the case method , which calls for discussion of critical situations that executives and managers have faced in various industries . Cases present 