Babson College , located in Wellesley , Massachusetts ( zoned as " Babson Park , " ZIP code 02457 ) , is a private business school which grants undergraduates a Bachelors of Science in Business Administration . The F. W. Olin Graduate School of Business at Babson College offers MBA degrees . Babson is associated with the nearby Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering , located in Needham , Massachusetts . Programs are accredited by AACSB and the New England Association of Schools and Colleges . The college is perennially named # 1 in the Entrepreneurship category of U.S. News & World Report 's annual college rankings , for 12 - years in a row ( since the ranking was established ) . In the 2004 - 2005 academic year , more than 1,700 undergraduate and 1,600 graduate students attended Babson , representing more than 48 states and 75 countries . About 19 percent of the undergraduates and 16 percent of the graduate students are from outside the United States . Approximately 50 % of Babson 's Two - Year MBA class of 2008 are international students . Babson College was founded by Roger Babson on September 3 , 1919 , as the " Babson Institute. " . It was renamed " Babson College " in 1969 . In their place will be five sequential " modules " that track the life of a typical business ; students will be taught functional skills only when they need them to solve a particular problem—a " just in time " approach to learning. " . The undergraduate curriculum integrates business disciplines and liberal arts into foundation , intermediate , and advanced - level courses . All first - year students participate in the Foundation Management Experience ( FME ) , a yearlong immersion into the world of business where student teams create their own for - profit ventures . At the completion of FME , the businesses are liquidated and any profits are donated to a charity of choice . Babson teaches accounting , marketing , finance , management operations , organizational behavior , strategy and economics in one integrated , three - semester course sequence known as Intermediate Management Experience ( IME ) . As part of the Advanced Program , students design their own learning plans , which can consist of upper - level elective courses in liberal arts and management , field - based experiences , and cocurricular activities . Babson features four degree programs , all using Babson 's modular approach and emphasizing the practical application of business ideas . Two - Year MBA program : it includes field - based experience working on business problems for client companies . One - Year MBA Program : an accelerated full - time MBA program is for students with an undergraduate business degree and at least two years of post - graduate work . Evening MBA program : its eight - course core includes four cross - disciplinary classes that teach holistic thinking about complex management situations . Fast Track MBA Program : In January 2003 , Babson introduced a part - time program combining traditional classroom instruction with Web - based , distance learning . The program can be completed in 24 months . Students attend classes on - campus during intensive , two - and - a - half day sessions once each month . Executive education : Babson Executive Education offerings include custom programs , open enrollment programs , consortium programs , applied research centers . Ranked # 2 by students in interaction of diverse population . 