Bahir Dar University is a university in Bahir Dar Town , the capital of the Amhara National Regional State in Ethiopia . The University is a combination of two smaller institutes formed earlier , after the departments were gradually raised to a degree level starting from 1996 . The establishment of Bahir Dar University owes a lot to two former higher institutions . The Bahir Dar Polytechnic Institute , which formed one of the faculties of the University , was established in 1963 under the technical cooperation between the Government of USSR and the Imperial Government of Ethiopia . The objective of the institute was to train skilled technicians in the fields of Agro - Mechanics , Industrial Chemistry and Metal , Textile , Electrical and Wood Technologies . The Institute had to undergo number of program changes within the area of technology until the commencement of the Engineering degree program 1996 . Throughout these program changes , the institute did all what it could to supply the labor market with the best technicians who are now running most of the businesses in the industrial , educational , agricultural and other sectors . The other fraternal institution of higher learning called Bahir Dar Teachers College was established more than three decades ago . The college , then , known as Academy of Pedagogy , was established in 1972 by the tripartite agreement of the Imperial Government , UNESCO and UNDP and started actual work in the following year under the auspices of the Ministry of Education and Fine Arts . Its general objective was to train multipurpose primary education professionals capable of adopting primary education to rural life and rural development . Its specific objectives were to train primary school teacher trainers , supervisors , educational leaders , adult education organizers and community development agents . Soon after its beginning , however , the program only focused on offering pedagogics as a major area of study and Amharic , English , Geography and Mathematics as minor courses . Later , diploma programs were introduced when in 1996 the diploma offering departments were raised to degree level . All in all the college provided instructors to the different levels of the education sector through its regular and extension programs . The two fraternal institutions of higher learning were integrated and formed Bahir Dar University following the Council of Ministers regulation no. 60 / 1999 . The University was inaugurated on May 6 , 2000 . The polytechnic Institute and Bahir Dar Teachers College are renamed Faculty of Engineering and Faculty of Education , respectively . In addition to these , the university has now two more faculties namely the faculty of Business and Economics and the faculty of Law , which were established in 2001 and 2003 respectively . Bahir Dar University was officially inaugurated in May 2001 . It also has an institute of Textile and Garment , which is the only of its type in the country . Needs assessment on whether to open a faculty of Agriculture has been carried out , and accordingly the designing of the curriculum is completed to start the program soon . The faculity of Agriculture has already started functioning . More over the university started postgradauted programmes in education faculity in the fields of Mathematics , pedagogical science , Amharic , physics and currently it will start in other departments . 