The Bainbridge Graduate Institute on Bainbridge Island , Washington offers pioneering business curriculum which prepares graduates to create and manage successful , dynamic enterprises that build a better world . Founded in 2002 , The Higher Education Coordinating ( HEC ) Board of Washington State has allowed BGI to confer the MBA degree since the beginning . BGI’s relevant and revolutionary MBA program is offered over the course of two - or three - years , in a format designed for working adults . MBA student 's may choose an Industry Concentration . It also offers two distinct Certificate programs in Seattle , Washington in Sustainable Business and Sustainable Entrepreneurship & Intrapreneurship . BGI 's student body has an average age of 38 , and a range from 22 to 66 . Each year , students and faculty attend nine intensives ( Thursday afternoon through Sunday morning ) on Bainbridge Island , WA , and complete online learning between the intensives . Classes meet face - to - face once a month and utilize a variety of distance learning technologies to continue their work between sessions . A typical quarter at BGI consists of a pre - reading period , three weekend intensives , online distance learning between intensives , and a finals period . The academic calendar is organized into Fall , Winter and Spring quarters , with no required courses offered in summer . MBA program credits are awarded for graduate coursework , in a combination of 3 - credit courses and 1 - credit courses . Individual courses may vary as to the distribution of lecture , lab and practicum . The majority of BGI students hold full time jobs . They come from all parts of the US , and three Canadian Provinces , with about three quarters coming from within 500 miles of Seattle . In addition to its MBA program , BGI also offers two one - year Certificate programs , one in Sustainable Business and the other in Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Intrapreneurship . BGI is in process of applying for accreditation . BGI was rated # 1 in 12 of the 20 factors surveyed . In 2007 , BGI had 144 students and has graduated its third class . The most commented - upon feature of BGI’s education is the learning community . BGI students are , literally , a community of adult learners committed to changing the world . Students consult each other widely to leverage the value of their diverse experiences . The learning community feeds and shapes the academic experience and continues to provide a framework for lifelong learning among the alumni and extended BGI community . 