Baker University is a university located in Baldwin City , Kansas . Founded in 1858 , it is the oldest university in Kansas and is affiliated with the United Methodist Church . Baker University is made up of three schools . The College of Arts and Sciences at the campus in Baldwin City , Kansas is for students pursuing undergraduate degrees in any of over forty areas of study . The School of Professional and Graduate Studies ( SPGS ) serves working adults at campuses in Lee 's Summit , Missouri and Overland Park , Topeka , Lawrence , and Wichita , Kansas . The School of Nursing , which is operated in partnership with Stormont - Vail HealthCare in Topeka , offers a Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree . Enrollment in all three schools has grown to a total student population of about 3,200 . There are more than 900 students on the Baldwin City campus , approximately 2,500 in SPGS programs , and 140 at the School of Nursing . Baker’s academic reputation is strong . U.S. News and World Report and the Princeton Review consistently rank the University as a top school in the Midwest . In addition , Baker has been recognized for its value by Money magazine and Barron 's Best Buys in College Education . Four Rhodes Scholars , one winner of the Pulitzer in journalism , two Barry M. Goldwater Scholars and one Jack Kent Cooke Scholar have graduated from Baker . There are 16,000 living alumni . The schools athletic teams are called the Wildcats , and have only one official color , orange . The 17 sports compete in the NAIA , Region V , and the Heart of America Athletic Conference . Baker University has a proud history , including a 22 - 9 victory against the University of Kansas in the first intercollegiate football game to take place in Kansas . Additionally , Baker has over 100 All - Americans and nearly 100 conference titles . Women 's sports began at Baker in 1978 . Emil S. Liston , Alumnus , Athletic Director , and Basketball Coach helped create the NAIA and the first national basketball tournament . Baker 's stadium is now named in his honor . Charlie Richard , the late former Football Coach is honored in the National College Football Hall of Fame for his success at Baker . He has the highest winning percentage of an NAIA football coach , and led the Wildcats to the playoffs 10 times during his 14 year tenure . Facilities : Located inside the Charlie Richard Outdoor Sports Facility is Liston Stadium , built in the 1930s , is home to football , track , and select soccer matches . Soccer plays the majority of its matches at North Park . Also in the complex are A.B. Cavaness Field , and Sauder Field , home to the softball and baseball teams . Volleyball and basketball compete in the George F. Collins Jr. Center , which is also home to the Athletic Hall of Fame . The Cross Country team makes its home at the Baldwin City Muncipal Golf Course . The entire Charlie Richard Outdoor Sports Facility underwent dramatic improvements between 2002 and 2006 . Upgrades included new artificial turf , a new track , the addition of stadium seats and the Tom Hedrick Press Box , lights for baseball and softball , among other things . Training facilities and the weightroom are located in Mabee Memorial Hall , as is the old Gym . They were last 