B.C.E.T. Gurdaspur is a premier , coeducational , engineering college located in Gurdaspur , Punjab , India . BCET imparts education in various engineering disciplines . BCET has seven academic and two administrative departments . The college is situated 4 K.M. away from Gurdaspur bus stand and 2 K.M. away from railway station ( on National Highway - 1A towards Pathankot ) . Pathankot is 35 km away and Amritsar is 75 km away from the College campus . The college is approved by AICTE ( All India Council Of Technical Education ) and is affiliated to the Punjab Technical University , Jalandhar . The first session commenced from August 21 , 1995 when 120 students were admitted in three B. Tech disciplines . Presently , the college is offering six disciplines of B.Tech. and two disciplines of M.Tech . Further 10 % of the total seats are filled separately through the LEET programme . Four students are nominated from other states by M.H.R.D . The Department of Applied Sciences , Humanities & Management cover the subject areas of Applied Physics , Applied Chemistry , Applied Mathematics , Material Science , and Management & Communication Skills . The department has highly qualified faculty and is involved in the research activities in the form of their own continuing research work , post - doctorate fellowship , guiding the Ph.D. students and development activities in the form of executing projects funded by AICTE , New Delhi under MODROBS , TAPTEC & R&D schemes . The department carries out its undergraduate programme in chemical engineering through full time faculty , industrial experts and associated faculty member from different discipline . The department was established in 1995 and offers four years B. Tech . The department possesses the qualified , experienced and dedicated faculty . Apart from the teaching and academic activities the faculty of the department is actively involved in research work . Core competencies of the department are in the area of image processing , compiler design , network security and web development etc . It is one of the oldest department in the college & offer four year course at undergraduate level leading to Bachelor of Technology in Electronics & Communication Engineering . Is also running two year course at Postgraduate Level Leading to Master in Technology in Electronics & Communication Engineering under regional centre of PTU Jalandhar . The Department of Information Technology came in to existence in the year 2001 with an initial intake of 40 students . The major emerging areas in which the department is actively concentrating upon are Natural Language Processing , Software Engineering and Advanced IT Technologies . The department is more concerned on the broad picture of modern Technologies like E - commerce . At present the department is functional with its highly qualified and experienced faculty along with the associated faculty of Computer Sc . & Engg . The department offered four years course at undergraduate level leading to the award of a B.Tech degree in the disciplines of Mechanical and production engineering respectively . The course have been designed in concentration with industries keeping in view the latest development in the field and the current and further need of the state and nation , In addition to the theoretical classroom instruction , emphasis is also laid on the professional practice by making practical job training and integral part of the curriculums . Department is equipped with well and experience faculty , besides the academic activities , faculty is also involved in different administrative jobs . Ingersoll - Rand , Sterling , JCT 