The BIT Sindri ( formerly known as Bihar Institute of Technology ) is a major college of engineering in Jharkhand , India . An elite institute of higher learning , BIT has several AICTE approved undergraduate , postgraduate and doctoral programs . The institute is funded and administered by the Department of Science and Technology , Govt. of Jharkhand , Ranchi and is academically affiliated to Vinoba Bhave University , Hazaribag for conducting examinations and awarding degrees . BIT has received periodic fundings from the World Bank for several projects . The institute campus is located at a distance of about 30 kms from the Dhanbad City.The campus is well connected via road as well as rail route from Dhanbad . BIT was founded in 1949 under the name of College of Electrical and Mechanical Engineering at Patna . After one year , on 17th November 1950 it was shifted to Sindri and thus BIT Sindri was born with a Principal , three Professors and sixty Students.During the initial years , the college had diploma programs in these two disciplines of Engineering . In 1952 , degree programs were introduced . The next important date in the Institute’s history is 1956 , when its name was changed to Bihar Institute of Technology , the name it had retained until Jharkhand and Bihar were separated.Over the years , several other degree programs in various other branches of Engineering were added . All over Bihar and Jharkhand , it is still popularly known as BIT . BIT Sindri is located on a sprawling 450 acres of land in the major industrial town of Sindri in Dhanbad district . It is The Institute boasts one of the best infrastructures and facilities among other institutes of national repute in India . Each branch has its own separate building and several labratories . Some departments also have their own libraries and computer facilities . The campus also has an auditorium , a library , a canteen , a gymnasium , a playground , a basketball court , a tennis court , a branch of the State Bank of India , a post office , a STD / ISD phone booth and a co - operative store for the benefit of the students and the staff . The Sindri Town railway station is adjacent to the campus . There is a shuttle service between campus and Dhanbad four times a day . The other means of transportation from Dhanbad station to the campus are local taxis ( also called trekkers ) and minibuses , which have most hostels on their route . This institute is fully residential . Professors’ quarters and hostels are also present on campus , giving it the feel of one big close - knit community . The on - campus student housing consists of over 22 hostels , which can accomodate more than 3000 students at a time . There are many clubs in the institute that provide a forum for the extra - curricular expressions of the students . Some of these are Sarjana ( the college magazine ) , the Rotaract Club , the Leo Club , the Arts Club , the Gandhi Rachnatmak Samiti , the Model Club and the Film Club , among others . They organize various intra - and inter - college events from time to time . BIT Sindri has 10 engineering and 4 interdisciplinary departments . A department usually concentrates on a single engineering or a science discipline . Head of the Department ( HoD ) is at the head of administrative structure for 