BSU Soar High . Bukidnon State University is a State University located in Malaybalay City , Bukidnon , Philippines . Bukidnon State College is now a University after Pres . Gloria Macapagal - Arroyo signed into law Republic Act No. 9456 on May 15 , 2007 , converting BSC into a state university to be known as the Bukidnon State University . Passed during the Third Special Session of the Thirteenth Congress of the Philippines , RA 9456 was approved by the Senate last February 19 , 2007 and was signed into law by PGMA 85 days after . As a state university , BSU shall primarily provide advanced education , higher technological , professional instruction and training in the fields of education , arts and sciences , public administration , information technology , accountancy , law and other relevant fields of study . Bukidnon State College was one of many schools around the nation that featured in Manila Bulletin News Paper and Online in the Schools , Colleges , and Universities Section . The BUKIDNON STATE COLLEGE ( BSC ) , originally known as the Bukidnon Provincial High School , was founded in 1924 . It is nestled in a 6.02 - hectare land where most of its facilities are . It was established by William H. Pickel , the American schools superintendent assigned in the Province of Bukidnon . In 1927 , this secondary school was converted into a normal school and was renamed the Bukidnon Normal School . The main gate of the Intstitution . The University Library . The old main gate of the University . When World War II broke out in 1941 , the school was temporarily closed . When it reopened in 1945 , classes were held in army tents at the provincial capitol grounds and in private homes . Nipa - roofed buildings served as classrooms in 1947 until semi - permanent structures could be built from war damage claims in 1950 , and from ICA - NEC funds in 1957 . The secondary curriculum was then phased out to give way to the two - year special education courses starting school year 1952 - 53 . At about this time , Pacifico A. Ramos assumed post as superintendent . In 1956 , the two - year secondary course was discontinued in favor of a four - year course in education . In the same year , a kindergarten class was introduced . Four years later , the School of Graduate Studies was opened . Graduate courses were also offered at external study centers located in the neighboring towns and provinces . In June 1971 , the Bachelor of Science in Secondary School Education was offered and the high school training department was also added . In 1972 , the Bukidnon Normal School was renamed the Bukidnon Normal College . The first master’s graduate was produced in 1975 . In 1976 , Dr. Jaime M. Gellor succeeded Supt . With the issuance of Presidential Decree 944 , the Bukidnon Normal College was converted into the Bukidnon State College on June 14 , 1976 . Consequently , Dr. Gellor was appointed as the first president of the school on April 21 , 1977 . During his time , more permanent buildings were constructed . Continuing infrastructure build - up was made in 1986 when Dr. Teresita T. Tumapon was appointed second president . She pushed for more projects including intense faculty development programs . As the school entered its eighth decade of existence , Dr. Tumapon strived to create more linkages here and 