Abhishek Bachchan ( Hindi : अभिषेक बच्चन , born 5 February 1976 in Mumbai , Maharashtra , India ) is an award - winning Indian actor . Abhishek Bachchan is the son of Bollywood icon Amitabh Bachchan and actress turned politician Jaya Bhaduri . His grandfather , Harivansh Rai Bachchan , was a well - known poet of Urdu and Hindi literature . The original last name of Abhishek 's parental family is Srivastav , Bachchan being the pen name used by his grandfather . However , when his father Amitabh entered films , he did so under his father 's pen name . He is of Punjabi Sikh heritage from his grandmother Teji 's side , while also of Bengali Kulin Brahmin descent from his mother Jaya Bhaduri 's side . Abhishek attended Jamnabai Narsee School , Bombay Scottish School in Mumbai , Modern School in Vasant Vihar , New Delhi and Aiglon College in Switzerland . He then went to the United States to complete his education at Boston University but then left the course mid - way to pursue his acting career when his father Amitabh Bachchan 's career was facing trouble . Though Abhishek began his career in 2000 , it was not until 2004 that he rose into prominence . He made his film debut in J.P.Dutta 's Refugee along with Kareena Kapoor in 2000 but the film was not considered a success . In a span of four years , Bachchan went on to do many more movies , without any major box - office successes . 2004 was a good year for him . His performance in Mani Ratnam 's Yuva , proved his mettle as an actor . He portrayed the character of Lallan which earned him the Filmfare Best Supporting Actor Award and many wins at major film award functions . The same year , he starred in Dhoom which was his first major hit. . In 2005 , he shot to fame with four consecutive hits : Bunty Aur Babli , Sarkar , Dus and Bluffmaster . . He won his second Filmfare Award in the Best Supporting Actor category for Sarkar He was also nominated for Filmfare Best Actor Award for his role in Bunty Aur Babli. . His first 2006 release , the multi - starrer Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna ( 2006 ) was one of the highest grossing films of the year . He was also a part of Mani Ratnam 's stage show , Netru , Indru , Naalai alongside many other co - stars . His second release Umrao Jaan failed to do well at the box office . His third release Dhoom 2 , a sequel to his first hit Dhoom did very well at the box office . His first release in 2007 was Guru . He has received much acclaim for his performance and the film emerged as his true solo hit . Abhishek Bachchan was earlier engaged to Karisma Kapoor in October 2002 though the engagement was later called off after about 4 months . Since then , Bachchan had been linked to many of his co - stars but has denied all the rumours . After much speculation concerning their relationship , his engagement to Aishwarya Rai was announced on January 14 , 2007 . The announcement was later confirmed by Amitabh Bachchan . On April 20 , 2007 , Abhishek Bachchan got married to Aishwarya Rai according to traditional Hindu rites of the South Indian Bunt community , to which his wife belongs . Token North Indian and Bengali 