Abigail Evelyn Titmuss , best known as Abi Titmuss , ( born 8 February , 1976 in Ruskington near Sleaford , Lincolnshire ) , is an English television personality , glamour model and occasional actress . Titmuss was born on 8 February 1976 and graduated from City University in St Bartholomew 's Hospital in 1998 and became a staff nurse at London 's University College Hospital . Titmuss met TV presenter John Leslie at a party in 1998 . The pair quickly formed a relationship , and Titmuss lived between her student nurse accommodation at the hospital and Leslie 's home in Barnes , south - west London . In 2002 presenter Ulrika Jonsson released her autobiography , suggesting she had been raped earlier in her career by a now well - known TV presenter . Weeks later the News of the World ran front page pictures of John Leslie snorting cocaine in a cafe . The following week , pictures appeared in the paper of Leslie , Titmuss and other women taking part in sex - sessions at Leslie 's home , including Lanre Onabowale , posing as basketball player Jayson Blayde , and his girlfriend . The following week on Matthew Wright 's live Five morning television show , Leslie was named as the anonymous celebrity linked to the rape accusation in Jonsson 's autobiography . Leslie was arrested by the Metropolitan Police Force , and faced a court trial throughout which Titmuss was demurely present at his side . The image of Titmuss at this time was in complete contrast to that which had been portrayed in the various newspaper articles and pictures leading up to the trial , and she received high praise in most editorials . When Leslie was found not guilty the assumption was that the couple would continue their relationship . However , Leslie 's career had stalled and Titmuss had raised her image to the point where she was offered various television presenting jobs . Her tabloid - friendly looks and ease in front of the camera gained her a part - time post as a reporter for Leslie 's friends Richard and Judy , undertaking occasional projects while continuing her job as a nurse . However , a few months later she lost this job when a ménage à trois home sex video of Leslie , Titmuss and another woman found its way onto the Internet . Leslie and Titmuss immediately broke up , and Titmuss insisted that the tape had been released to the press by Leslie in light of his extreme need for cash to fund his lifestyle . Titmuss fully engaged her new image , and undertook a series of interviews promoting her image as a real sex star and Britain 's Number 1 pinup . In her own words to the Sunday Mirror she said : " I'm not like those glamour girls who say : ' I'm really dirty , I'm really bad ' , then just pose around . I really am dirty and bad - I love sex. " . She took up presenting on pornographic channel Television X , released a risqué fitness video , authored an erotic novel published by Black Lace , made personal appearances in nightclubs all over the UK and Ireland , made millions by licensing every image of herself published to her own trademark and wrote a regular sex advice Column for FHM . Titmuss has modelled for many UK men 's magazines , such as FHM ( whose readers voted her # 7 in FHM 100 Sexiest 