Abigail Kathleen Breslin ( born April 14 1996 ) is an Academy Award - nominated American actress . The fourth youngest actress ever to be nominated for a competitive Academy Award , Breslin is known for her role in the film Little Miss Sunshine , as well as for several supporting parts in other Hollywood films . Breslin was born in New York City , New York to Kim , who manages Abigail 's career , and Michael Breslin , a computer programmer and consultant . Her maternal grandparents , Catherine and Lynn Blecker , are from New Jersey , and now live in Lancaster County , Pennsylvania . She has two older brothers , Ryan and Spencer Breslin , who is also an actor . Breslin lives in New York with her family , which her maternal grandparents have described as " very close - knit " . She is named after First Lady of the United States Abigail Adams and collects American Girl dolls and stuffed animals ; she also has two dogs and a cat . After being nominated as the fourth youngest Best Actress Nominee in 2007 , Abigail Breslin has now been solidified in the ranks of young Hollywood as one of the best young actresses of her generation . Breslin 's performance in the 2006 film Little Miss Sunshine was highly acclaimed by critics and audiences alike . Her portrayal as the aspiring young beauty pagent contestant " Olive Hoover " was touted as honest , refreshing & heartwarming , without the cloying mannerisms usually seen in children 's performances . Prior to her star - making turn in Sunshine , Breslin showed early promise while appearing in the films Signs ( 2002 ) , Raising Helen ( in which Breslin and her brother Spencer played siblings ) , The Princess Diaries 2 : Royal Engagement , Keane , Chestnut : Hero of Central Park , and The Family Plan . She has also appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno six times . In 2006 , Breslin starred in the comedy Little Miss Sunshine , playing a beauty pageant contestant , the youngest in a dysfunctional family on a road trip . Her co - stars , Greg Kinnear and Alan Arkin , both mentioned that they were " astounded by her seriousness of purpose during shooting " . For her performance , Breslin received a Screen Actors Guild Award Nomination , as well as an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress ( on January 23 , 2007 ) . At the time of her nomination and at the age of ten years old , Breslin became the fourth youngest actress to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress . The three actresses younger than Breslin to receive the nomination were Tatum O'Neal , Mary Badham , and Quinn Cummings . Breslin 's co - star , Alan Arkin , did not want her to win the award , specifying that he thought that she has " had enough attention " and " needs to have a childhood " . Although Breslin did not win the Oscar , she co - presented with Jaden Smith at the 79th Academy Awards on February 25 , 2007 . Additional awards won by Abigail Breslin in 2007 included the Broadcast Film Critics Association Award for Best Young Actress , the Online Film Critics Society Awards ( Best Supporting Actress ) , & the Young Artist Award ( Best Performance in a Feature Film - Young Actress Age Ten or Younger ) 