Adam Richard Sandler ( born September 9 , 1966 ) is an American comedian , producer , actor , and musician . After becoming a popular Saturday Night Live cast member , he went on to become a major Hollywood actor , starring in several $100 million films . Though he is best known for his comedic roles , he has also had success in romantic and dramatic roles , such as the films Punch - Drunk Love ( 2002 ) , Spanglish ( 2004 ) , and Reign Over Me ( 2007 ) . Sandler is also known by his nickname " The Sand Man " . Please help ] improve this section ] by expanding it . Further information might be found on the ] or at requests for expansion . On June 22 , 2003 , Sandler married actress Jacqueline Samantha Titone ( now Jackie Sandler ) , and they are the parents of their new baby girl , Sadie Madison Sandler , born May 6 , 2006 at Cedars - Sinai in Los Angeles . In the mid to late 1980s , Sandler played Theo Huxtable 's friend Smitty on The Cosby Show ( 1985–1989 ) . He also was a performer for the MTV game show Remote Control , on which he made appearances as the characters " Trivia Delinquent " or " Stud Boy. " . Sandler started performing in comedy clubs early on , taking the stage at his brother 's urging when he was only 17. He was then discovered by comedian Dennis Miller , who caught Sandler 's act in Los Angeles . Miller immediately recommended him to Saturday Night Live producer Lorne Michaels . Sandler was hired as a writer for SNL in 1990 and became a featured player the following year , quickly making a name for himself by performing amusing original songs on the show , including " The Chanukah Song " . He left the show in 1995 to focus on his acting career . Sandler 's first successful starring role was in 1989 when he starred in the movie Going Overboard . In 1995 he starred in Billy Madison , in which he plays a grown man repeating grades 1–12 to earn his father 's respect back , along with the right to inherit his father 's multi - million - dollar hotel empire . He followed this movie up with other financially successful comedies such as Happy Gilmore ( 1996 ) and The Wedding Singer ( 1998 ) . He was initially cast in the bachelor - party - themed comedy / thriller Very Bad Things , but had to back out due to his involvement in The Waterboy ( 1998 ) , where Sandler reached box - office superstardom , and has remained since then . Although most of his earlier films were almost universally despised by movie critics , many of his recent films starting with Punch - Drunk Love have received almost uniformly positive reviews , leading many movie critics to believe that Sandler possesses considerable acting ability that they believed had been previously wasted on poorly written scripts and characters with no development . Audiences have remained faithful to Sandler 's slapstick humor to the tune of $100 - million - plus grossing movies . Sandler has moved outside the genre of goofball humor to take on more serious parts such as the aforementioned Punch - Drunk Love ( for which he was nominated for a Golden Globe ) , and Spanglish . He also plays a loving father figure in 