For other persons named , see ( disambiguation ) . Adam Charles Goldberg ( born October 25 , 1970 ) is an American actor , director , and producer . He typically plays the quintessential ' young New York Jew ' in many movies and TV programs of the 1990s and 2000s ; including the title role of the self - parodying ' Jewsploitation ' movie The Hebrew Hammer . Goldberg was born in Santa Monica , California and was raised near Hollywood . His father is Jewish and his mother is a Catholic of Irish , French , and German descent . He was raised in the Jewish faith , though is fairly non - observant . In fact , he refused to have a bar mitzvah , stating that it would have been disrespectful to Judaism , as it would not have been a sincere gesture on his part . He had a fairly normal upper - middle class upbringing that included private school , music lessons , surfing and skiing . After seeing a school drama class Shakespeare production , Goldberg became fascinated with show business and began studying acting at various workshops in his early teens . He was active in campus theatrical productions during his years attending Sarah Lawrence College . This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia 's quality standards . Please ] improve this article ] if you can . The neutrality of this article is disputed . Please do not remove this message until the dispute is resolved . Goldberg 's first major screen role occurred in 1992 's Billy Crystal film Mr. Saturday Night . His career - making role was arguably that of the tough , wise - cracking infantryman Mellish in Steven Spielberg 's 1998 blockbuster Saving Private Ryan . Ironically , then , he has expressed disappointment that he seems to be typecast as the " nervous Jew. " . The role of Mordechai Jefferson Carver ( aka " The Hebrew Hammer " ) in 2003 provided him the ultimate response to this perceived typecasting : a stereotype - laden Jewish protagonist that is nevertheless assertive , strong and self - confident - - much like a Jewish version of Sweet Sweetback or Shaft from the blaxploitation films of the ' 70s . Perhaps this is why most of his " post - Hammer " roles have called for less of an overt Jewish identity , thus allowing the actor more range in his craft . While having capably played lead characters , as in the ill - fated 2005 FOX series Head Cases and Hebrew Hammer , Goldberg has mostly been cast in strong supporting roles . Memorable roles include Jerry , the miserable undead servant to Christopher Walken 's Gabriel character in the supernatural thriller , The Prophecy and the borderline - psychotic Eddie on the sitcom , Friends . Goldberg has also worked alongside preeminent voice artists like Dan Castellaneta and Charlie Adler , lending his voice talent to the box office hit Babe : Pig in the City and cartoons like the Fox cult favorite , Eek ! . Goldberg has also been associated with the band The Flaming Lips . He is good friends with the lead singer , Wayne Coyne . Goldberg appeared extensively in the Flaming Lips documentary , Fearless Freaks , and will have a supporting role in the upcoming film Christmas on Mars , a film written and directed by Coyne . Goldberg plays the " Mars Psychiatrist " . He is also in an episode of Entourage 