Adam Peter Rickitt ( born 29 May 1978 in Crewe , Cheshire ) , is an English actor , former singer and model . Rickitt is the youngest child of four in his family . He has three older brothers : Tim ( Timothy Grant ) , Mark ( Mark Edward ) and Sam ( Samuel James ) . The family business is the estate agency Rickitt Grant which operates in Chester and London . Adam was educated at Sedbergh School . Rickitt has spoken about suffering from bulimia in his teenage years and male sufferers have largely been neglected . He is most famous for his role on popular ITV soap opera Coronation Street , where he took over the role of Nick Tilsley in 1997 . The part had previously been played by actor Warren Jackson until 1996 when the character moved to Canada . He left the series in 1999 , returning briefly in 2002 and for a longer spell from 2003 to 2004 after which he along with several cast members were sacked after a new producer came to the show . His most famous and controversial storyline was in 2003 when the character of Nick was involved in the series ' first gay kiss with Todd Grimshaw ( played by Bruno Langley ) . Rickitt left Coronation Street in 1999 to start a music career . He signed a six - album deal , although he only released one album - Good Times - in 2000 . Rickitt 's first single , I Breathe Again , reached number five in the UK Top Ten , but follow up singles Everything My Heart Desires , and Best Thing only entered the Top Twenty and Top Thirty respectively . The failure of the album ( which peaked at No. 41 in the chart ) and Rickitt 's disillusionment with the direction of his career led him to abandon pop music . However in 2003 , he played Mark Cohen in the musical Rent . Rickitt actively courted gay audiences during this period , appearing regularly at gay venues and the BBC series Gaytime TV as well as children 's television and mainstream pop festivals and television series . Prior to his acting career , Rickitt had briefly been a child model . He subsequently has modelled for UK magazines such as Attitude and Cosmopolitan . He is known especially in the tabloid press for having an extremely well - defined " six - pack " . This , combined with his blond hair and good looks , has led to the accusation that he is a himbo . Nonetheless , Rickitt turned down an opportunity to study law at Cambridge University in favour of continuing his modelling and acting career . In October 2005 , Rickitt was approved as a prospective parliamentary candidate for the UK Conservative Party . As part of this attempt to reinvent himself , in February 2006 he appeared on the political debate show Question Time , as the non - partisan guest . In May 2006 , he was one of 100 would - be MPs chosen for the Conservative party ' A - list ' . The following month he appeared on Sunday AM with Andrew Marr . He attends major party functions and local party functions in the hope of being selected as well as developing a political blog on his website . However , a newspaper article alleged was not actually a member of the Conservative Party , and had only decided to support them because of his dislike 