Adam Jared Brody ( born December 15 , 1979 ) is an American film and television actor . He began his career in the early 2000s , appearing on the Gilmore Girls and other series , and subsequently came to fame for his role as Seth Cohen on The O.C. , establishing his defining screen persona , with Joel Stein of Time having described Brody as having created an " Adam Brody type " , a screen persona of a " nerdy , sarcastic , obscure - reference - laced Jew " . Brody has also appeared in several film roles , including Mr. & Mrs. Smith , Thank You for Smoking and In the Land of Women . Brody was born in San Diego , California , the oldest son of Jewish American parents Mark Brody ( a lawyer ) and Valerie Siefman ( a graphic artist ) . He has younger twin brothers , Sean and Matt . Brody attended Scripps Ranch High School , receiving " poor grades " , and grew up in suburban San Diego , spending time surfing . He has said that while he was not a " Casanova " , he had " cute girlfriends " and " pretty much lived at the beach " . Brody attended community college for one year and dropped out at the age of nineteen , moving to Hollywood in order to become an actor . He subsequently hired an acting coach and signed with a manager . After a year of training and auditioning , Brody landed the role of Barry Williams in the TV movie , Growing up Brady . He was cast in recurring roles on Gilmore Girls as Dave Rygalski , Lane 's bandmate and love interest , and the Canadian comedy television series The Sausage Factory . In 2003 , he wrote Home Security ( a short film ) , appeared in the feature film Grind , and began playing his most famous role to date , Seth Cohen , a slightly awkward teenager , on the television show The O.C . The role turned Brody into a teen idol , with the character having been described by the Los Angeles Times as " TV 's sexiest geek " and by Time as having " redefined " the screen persona of " unapologetic " nerdiness ; his character ( defined by director Jon Kasdan as the " new kind of nerdy Jewish guy : both self - deprecating and self - obsessed " ) has since inspired scripts to describe particular characters as " Adam Brody types " . The role also developed Brody a female fan following and as a result , Brody was ranked No. 17 in Independent Online 's " 100 Sexiest Men Alive " , was twice placed on Teen People 's annual list of " 25 Sexiest Stars under 25 " , and was the first male on the cover of ELLEgirl . Brody improvised some of the character 's comic dialogue . During the show 's run , Brody appeared alongside Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt in 2005 's film Mr. & Mrs. Smith and played a Hollywood studio assistant in the 2006 film adaptation of Thank You for Smoking . Brody was signed to a seven - year contract for The O.C. , which was eventually cancelled in 2007 and ended its run in February of that year ; Brody has said that he is " not unhappy " with the show 's cancellation and that although he was " fortunate " to be 