Adam West ( born William West Anderson on September 19 , 1928 ) is an American actor who is best known for playing the role of Batman / Bruce Wayne on the TV series Batman ( which also had a film adaptation ) . He is also known for his self - parodying role as " Mayor Adam West " on Family Guy . Adam West was born in Walla Walla , Washington to Otto West Anderson and Audrey V. Speer ; he has a younger brother , John . He attended Walla Walla High School his Freshman and Sophmore years later attending Lakeside School , a prestigious high school in Seattle , he graduated with a BA in Literature and a minor in Psychology from Whitman College in Walla Walla , Washington . At Whitman , he was a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity , a member of the debate team , a singer in the school choir , a writer for the school newspaper , and a member of the Economics Club . He also swam , skied , ran track , and played water polo . He also was a graduate student at Stanford University . In 1950 , West married 17 year old Billi Lou Yeager . He was drafted into the United States Army in the early 1950s and served two years . After the Army , West and his wife travelled through Europe before settling in Hawaii . In Hawaii , West landed a role as the sidekick on a children 's show called The Kini Popo Show , which featured a chimp . West later took over as the star of the show . In 1959 , West moved to Hollwood and took the stage name , " Adam West. " . He co - starred in the film , The Young Philadelphians , with Paul Newman , and guest starred in a number of television Westerns . He made a brief appearance on the 1964 film Robinson Crusoe on Mars . Producer William Dozier cast West as Batman and his alter ego , Bruce Wayne , in Batman , the hit television series . The popular , campy show ran from 1966 to 1968 ; a film version was released in 1966 . After 120 episodes as Batman , West found himself typecast and spent the next few years trying to remake himself . In his first role after the series ended , he starred as Johnny Cain , a smooth talking nightclub owner involved with the CIA , in the 1969 film The Girl Who Knew Too Much . The film 's promotional materials tried to capitalize on West 's success as Batman . During the 1970s and 1980s , West appeared in a number of B movies , including The Happy Hooker Goes to Hollywood about the famed call girl , Xaviera Hollander . He also guest starred in episodes of several popular television series , including Love American Style , Emergency ! , Laverne & Shirley , and The Love Boat . In recent years , however , West has exploited his typecasting to receive a number of roles that are either self - parody or otherwise poke fun at his status as a pop - culture icon . During this period , West often played the voice of Batman , first in the short - lived animated series , The New Adventures of Batman , and in other shows like SuperFriends : The Legendary Super Powers Show , The Super Powers Team : Galactic Guardians . 