Adam Ruebin Beach ( born November 11 , 1972 in Ashern , Manitoba , Canada ) is a Canadian actor of Saulteaux descent . His most notable roles are Ira Hayes in Flags of Our Fathers , Private Ben Yahzee in Windtalkers and Ohiyesa ( Charles Eastman ) in Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee . He grew up with his two brothers on the Dog Creek Indian Reserve . When he was eight , his mother , who was eight months pregnant , was killed in a car accident caused by drunk driving . Soon after the car crash , his father died in a boating accident . Beach and his brothers were moved to Winnipeg to live with an aunt and uncle . In high school , he attended a drama class . The class was originally supposed to be a place to " goof off " with his friends , but Beach soon exhibited natural talents in acting . Beach began performing in local theatre productions , He eventually dropped out of school to take a lead role at the Manitoba Theatre for Young People . At age 18 , he won a small role in a miniseries called Lost In the Barrens . In the following years , he continued to work in local theatre and guest starred on television shows like Walker , Texas Ranger and Touched by an Angel . Shortly afterwards , Beach was cast as a regular on the television show North of 60 . In 1994 , Beach received his first lead role in a feature film as Squanto in Disney 's Squanto : A Warrior 's Tale . The following year Beach had a number of new projects . Lonesome Dove , My Indian Summer , Prey and A Boy Called Hate , but Dance Me Outside was considered his most memorable early role . He played a quick - witted street kid on a Native American reservation . Dance Me Outside , which was based on a book of short stories , and was in series called The Rez , that was based on the film of the same name . Beach was also cast in the television series , but as a different character . In 1996 , Beach 's first child , Noah Beach , was born from first wife Meredith Porter . Chris Eyre 's 1998 film , Smoke Signals was the first film that was written , produced , directed and acted by Native Americans and Beach had the leading role . This was Beach 's breakout role . He portrayed Victor Joseph , a reservation kid who had to collect the remains and property of his estranged father . The film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival , where it won the Audience Award and the Filmmaker 's Trophy . It was also nominated for the Grand Jury Prize . This role brought international attention to Beach . Also in 1998 , Beach 's second child was born . His name is Luke Beach . After Smoke Signals , there was a call for Beach in Hollywood , but he took his time in answering it . He took a small role in Disney 's Mystery , Alaska in 1999 and in 2000 accepted a role in the thriller , The Last Stop . Comedy - wise , Beach displayed his skills in The Art of Woo and the 2001 hit Joe Dirt as Kicking Wing , a Native American who sells fireworks . In 2002 , Windtalkers , starring Beach , came out 