Adam Garcia ( born June 1 , 1973 in Wahroonga , New South Wales , Australia ) , born Adam Gabriel Garcia , is an Australian actor of Colombian descent . Adam left university to take the role of Slide in the production of the musical ' Hot Shoe Shuffle ' , which toured Australia for two years before transferring to London in England . Adam stayed on in London to star in several West End musicals . Dein Perry , the choreographer of ' Hot Shoe Shuffle ' , went on to found the successful stage show ' Tapdogs ' . In 2000 Adam Garcia played ' Sean ' in Bootmen , a movie based on the Tapdogs story . Despite the fact that he has starred in such movies as Coyote Ugly and others , it was not until 2004 , when he participated as rock star Stu Wulff in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen that he gained mainstream fame as an actor . However , Garcia had long been an accomplished stage actor before the release of that movie . He played Doody in the West End 's version of Grease in London . He also played another Travolta character , Tony Manero , in the stage version of Saturday Night Fever , which ran from 1998 to 1999 in London . He appeared as government official Alex Klein in the 2005 Christmas special of the long - running British science fiction television series Doctor Who . According to the audio commentary podcast for the episode offered for free on the bbc.co.uk website following its transmission , Garcia accepted the relatively minor role as he is a science fiction fan . Garcia has been nominated for multiple awards during his acting career . His transition into a film actor began in 1997 , when he played Jones in Wilde , a movie about the life of writer Oscar Wilde . In September 2006 , Garcia began playing Fiyero in the London production of the Stephen Schwartz musical Wicked alongside Idina Menzel and now , Kerry Ellis and Helen Dallimore . Garcia 's father is from Colombia . Garcia reached number 15 in the UK singles chart in 1998 , with his cover version of The Bee Gees song " Night Fever " , taken from the stage musical Saturday Night Fever . Original Adam Garcia Website - most up - to - date info and news . Adam Garcia 's official website . Adam Garcia in independent film on Cape Cod . 