Addy Lee a celebrities hair stylist . He dreams of new hairstyles and is constantly seeking new and improved methods to deal with hair . He is always searching for yet another new way to make hair glamourous but functional . He turned 13 in year 1984 , and he started a childhood dream , one he held so much conviction for that he left home just to prove a point . Hair was the medium that he had wanted to use his creativity on . He was the youngest son of a grocery shop owner , a trade far removed from the glitzy world of hairdressing . In his young mind , he had wished to work in an air - conditioned area where he did n't have to sweat and with nice clothes to wear . In 1990 , at the age of 19 , he left his hometown in Penang and went to Singapore in search for that dream . For 3 years , he moved from one establishment to another , gathering experiences in both the creative art of hairdressing and the competencies of running a hair salon business . His dream came true and it stretched beyond the island in northern Malaysia . Addy Lee is , today a renowed name in Singapore . He possesses a wide portfolio of work that ranges from TV , print commercials , hairshows , seminars workshops and celebrities that includes famous local names like Michelle Chia , Joanna Peh , Quan Yi Feng , Mark Lee , Bryan Wong and more . His achievements to - date include having 9 salons in both Singapore and Malaysia . Now , he has started Monsoon Hair Academy to help like - minded individuals who wish to establish a career in the hairdressing industry . Monsoon Hair Academy opened in January 2007 . Addy Lee set up the hair school to pass on his passion to people with an inclination towards hair and fashion . The Academy is committed to providing a holistic education in hair and fashion besides imparting basic hair techniques . It will also teach hands - on skills such as make - up , image consultancy , fashion shoots and techniques for professional photo shoots and hair shows . These additional courses aim to value - add a budding hairstylist 's knowledge and competency in the hair and fashion industry . 