Adel Emam ( sometimes credited as : Adel Imam ) , ( Arabic : عادل إمام ) , born May 17 , 1940 , is a popular Egyptian movie and stage actor . He is primarily a comedian , but he has starred in more serious works and , especially early in his earlier films , combined comedy with romance . He earned a Bachelor 's Degree in Agriculture from Cairo University . Since then he has appeared in over 100 movies and 10 plays . He is probably the most famous actor in the Arab World . He has received critical and popular praise throughout his career . Short , slight , and with a face seemingly more appropriate a character actor than a leading man - - let alone a star whose career has flourished since the late sixties - - Adel Imam is able to portray characters from all social strata and backgrounds . His roles have displayed a wide range of humor including slapstick , farce , and even the occasional double entendre . His characters tend to be down on their luck rising above powerful outside pressures . This has proved an extremely resilient type in the Arab World . In January 2000 , the United Nations appointed him as a Goodwill Ambassador for UNHCR . Since then , he has worked tirelessly for the cause of refugees . In 2005 , he starred in Sifaara fil'Aimara ( Embassy in the Building ) , playing a Cairene everyman inconvenienced when the Embassy of Israel moves into his apartment building . In 2006 , he appeared as one of the many stars of The Yacoubian Building , a film reputed to be the highest - budgeted in Egyptian cinema and adapted from the novel of the same name . The story is a sharp look contemporary Egyptian life through the prism of a faded downtown Cairo apartment building . Emam portrays an aging roué whose misadventures form a central strand of the film 's complex narrative . Emam is married to two famous actresses and has four children from each , including the young director Rami Imam , Sarah Emam who is married to the son of the Muslim Brotherhood Leader , and lastly Mohammed Emam who is currently studying Medicine at The American University of Cairo . He is the brother of Esam Imam and Saleh Imam . His brother - in - law is the late actor Mustafa Metwalli . His mother - in - law is Fefe Abdo.As Adel Emam stated in his latest talk show with the host Hala Sarhan , Amin Shalaby is considered one of his best friends since college . Also , he met Raouf Pasha Rafla , who is one of Egypt 's main source of funding . He commented that he would love to work with Rafla as his producer and exotic dancer . Ana wa Hua wa Hiia ( 1964 ) . El Ragol da hai Ganini ( 1967 ) . El Khouroug min El Guana ( 1967 ) . Karamet Zawgaty ( 1967 ) . Kayfa Tesrak Millionaire ( 1968 ) . Helwa wa Shakia ( 1968 ) . Hekayet Thalass Banat ( 1968 ) . Ana Al Doctor ( 1968 ) . Afrit Merati ( 1968 ) . Bahth An Fadiha , al - ( 1973 ) . Katel Ma Katelsh had ( 1979 ) . Athkiya ' Laken Aghbiya ' ( 1980 ) . Ala Bab El Wazir ( 1982 ) . Harrif , El ( 1983 ) . Hata la yatir al 