Adewale Akinnuoye - Agbaje listen ( help·info ) ( born August 22 1967 ) is a British actor , solicitor and former male fashion model . He is 6 " 2 " ( 188cm ) tall . Akinnuoye - Agbaje was born in Islington , London , England behind the firestation on Upper Street . His parents are from Nigeria , but moved to London , England , where he was born . He has four sisters and is fluent in several languages , including English , Italian , Yorùbá ( the language of his parents ' ethnic group ) , and Swahili . He holds a Master of Laws from Kings College , the University of London , and is a practising Buddhist . The meaning of his name is broken down thus : Ade - the crown , wale - has come home , Akin - warrior , nuoye - of chieftaincy , Agbaje prosperity and wealth . He is known for portraying the criminal Simon Adebisi in the HBO prison series Oz , as well as Mr. Eko on ABC 's survivor drama Lost . He has numerous film credits since he began acting in 1994 and has appeared in many top movies , including the upcoming first ever completely CGI animated Dr. Seuss film Horton Hears a Who ! He has also stated that he will be directing a movie about his life story . Akinnuoye - Agbaje is a Buddhist . He was arrested on 2 September 2006 at 2:25am for disobeying a police officer and operating a motor vehicle without a license . He was released later that morning on US$500.00 bail , after spending six hours in jail . On 26 September 2006 he was cleared of all charges after providing proof that he has a license . Those who have trouble pronouncing his name often call him " Triple A " , while his family calls him " Wálé " . At school , he was called Wally Badger . He said he spent the entire day in character to try to grasp the intensity of Mr. Eko . There was no socializing . I would start two hours before I went to the set and I would n't say any other words other than the ones that I needed to say , that 's just the way I work and I think that intensity comes across in my characters " . His acting methodology made him seem anti social and may have been a driving force ( according to his interview with the New York Post ) in the termination of his character Mr. Eko . However it has also been reported that Akinnuoye - Agbaje asked to be written off the show after the loss of both his parents . Horton Hears a Who ! . Gima , Craig ( 05 September 2006 ) . TMZ Staff ( 05 September 2006 ) . Eko From " Lost " Arrested " . William Keck ( 01 November 2006 ) . This audio file was created from a revision dated 2006 - 06 - 25 , and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article . 