Adoor Bhasi was a famous Malayalam film comedian who gave an all new dimension to Malayalam comedies . Adoor Bhasi was almost always cast as the man who stands next to the hero . His roles gave the supple to commercialially important funny scenes in the later black and white age in the Malayalam film industry . He was also a writer , journalist , singer and film director . Adoor Bhasi was born as K. Bhaskaran Nair in 1927 in the Adoor village in Thiruvananthapuram , Kerala , India . He had a rich lineage to boast of . His grandfather ( His mother Maheshwari Amma 's father ) was C. V. Raman Pillai , one of the pioneers of Malayalam novel writing . Bhasi 's elder brother Chandraji also went on to become an actor . His other siblings are Padmanabhan Nair , Krishnan Nair , Omana kunjamma and Rajalakshmi Amma.Adoor Bhasi was the fourth son of his parents . He spent his childhood in Trivandrum . He lived in Roskot Bhavanam in Trivandrum and studied in M. G. College . After his studies at the M.G.College , he went on to study Textile Technology and secured a job in Madurai . He quit his job in Madurai to join Thiruvananthapuram Akashavani . He became a friend of T. N. Gopinathan Nair during his work in Akashavani . With that friendship , he worked as a journalist in Sakhi weekly which was published under T. N. Gopinathan Nair . His work in the Sakhi weekly earned him many friends from the professional play artists and writers in Trivandrum . That opened him the way to plays and subsequently to films . Adoor Bhasi started his acting career with plays . He worked with the likes of P. K. Vikraman Nair , T. R. Sukumaran Nair , Jagathy N. K. Achary and Nagavally R. S. Kurup . He got his first chance in films with Thiramala in a very negligible role . His first notable film was Chandrathara 's Mudiyanaya Puthran ( 1965 ) . There was no turning back after that . He went on to become one of the necessities of Malayalam commercial cinema in the later 1960 's and the 1970 's . He along with Bahadoor formed the duo that made Malayalam moviegoers laugh at a time when tragedy films were pouring in . As time passed Bhasi earned popularity comparable even to Prem Nazir . Bhasi went on to act in over 700 films . Adoor Bhasi acted as the villain in Karimbana and Itha Oru Manushyan . He did double roles in Kottaram Vilkkanundu and Lankadahanam . He got his first Kerala state film award for best actor in 1974 for Chattakkari . He first acted as hero in John Abraham 's Cheriyachante Kroorakrithyangal ( 1978 ) and got the Kerala state film award for best actor in 1979 . Later in 1984 , he won the Kerala state film award for second best actor for his performance in April 18 ( 1983 ) . Maravil Tirivu Sookshikkuka - Kaduva . . . Lottery Ticket - Thallu thallu . . . , Oru roopa nottu koduthal . . . Kannur Deluxe - Thalassery . . . Sthanarthi Saramma - Vottilla Vottilla . . . Chakravakam - Velutha vavinum . . . Thekkan Kattu - Neeya saranam . . . Sakthi - Manyanmare . . . Kattukurangu - Pankaja dala nayane . . . , Irattathookkam . . . Adya Kiranam - Anachal chanda . . . 