Adrian Lamo ( born 1981 ) is an infamous former grey hat hacker and journalist , principally known for breaking into a series of high - security computer networks , and his subsequent arrest . Best known among these were his intrusions into The New York Times and Microsoft . He is also known for attempting to identify security flaws in computer networks of Fortune 500 companies and then notifying them of any found ; while still illegal in many places without permission , this can be seen as a form of unsolicited penetration testing . Lamo was born in Boston , Massachusetts to Mario Lamo and Mary Lamo - Atwood . Dubbed the " homeless hacker " for his transient lifestyle , Lamo spent most of his travels couch - surfing , squatting in abandoned buildings and travelling to Internet cafes , libraries and universities to investigate networks , and sometimes exploit security holes . Despite performing authorized and unauthorized vulnerability assessment for several large , high - profile entities , Lamo refused to accept payment for his services . In the past , his lifestyle allowed him to travel up and down the coasts of the United States , often by coach , carrying all necessary possessions in a backpack . Since Lamo 's sentencing , he has entered the early stages of a career as an award - winning journalist , studying at American River College , with writing , photography , and editorial work / collaboration appearing in Network World , Mobile Magazine , 2600 Magazine , The American River Current , XY Magazine , and others . Lamo has interviewed personalities ranging from John Ashcroft , to Oliver Stone to alleged members of the Earth Liberation Front . Lamo also has a history of public speaking - he was a keynote speaker at a government security conference in 2005 alongside Bruce Schneier , and a panelist at the Information Security In the Age of Terrorism conference . Lamo has shown signs of increased cooperation with media since his release from federal custody , including a podcast interview with Patrick Gray in Australia , and a recent segment on 88.1 WMBR out of Cambridge . Adrian Lamo is perhaps best known for breaking into The New York Times internal computer network in February 2002 , adding his name to confidential databases of expert sources , and using the paper 's LexisNexis account to conduct research on high - profile subjects , although his first published activities involved operating AOL watchdog site Inside - AOL.com . The Times filed a complaint and a warrant for Lamo 's arrest was issued in August 2003 following a 15 month investigation by federal prosecutors in New York . At 10:15 AM on September 9 , after spending a few days in hiding , he surrendered to the US Marshals in Sacramento , California . He re - surrendered to the FBI in New York City on September 11 , and pleaded guilty to one count of computer crimes against Microsoft , Lexis - Nexis and The New York Times on 8 January , 2004 . Later in 2004 , Lamo was sentenced to six months ' detention at his parents ' home plus two years probation , and was ordered to pay roughly $65,000 in restitution . He was convicted of compromising security at The New York Times and Microsoft , and is alleged to have admitted to exploiting security weaknesses at Excite@Home , Yahoo ! , Microsoft , MCI WorldCom , Ameritech , Cingular and has allegedly violated network 