Adrien Brody ( born April 14 , 1973 ) is an American actor . He received widespread recognition when he was cast as the lead in Roman Polanski 's The Pianist ( 2002 ) . The role won him an Academy Award for Best Actor , the youngest actor ever to win the award . Brody was born in Woodhaven , Queens , New York to Elliot Brody , a retired history professor , and Sylvia Plachy , a photojournalist . Brody 's father is Jewish and his mother was born in Hungary ; Brody 's Hungarian maternal grandmother was also Jewish . As a child , Brody performed magic shows at children 's birthday parties as " The Amazing Adrien. " . He attended New York 's Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts ( famous as the inspiration for television 's Fame ) . His parents enrolled him in acting classes to distance him from the dangerous kids with whom he associated . In 1992 , Brody was seriously hurt in a motorcycle accident in which he flew over a car and crashed feet - first into a crosswalk . He spent months recuperating . An avid daredevil , he has broken his nose three times doing off - the - wall stunts . Brody hovered on the brink of stardom , receiving praise for his roles in Spike Lee 's Summer of Sam and Terrence Malick 's The Thin Red Line . He received widespread recognition when he was cast as the lead in Roman Polanski 's The Pianist ( 2002 ) . To prepare for the role , Brody withdrew for months , gave up his apartment and his car , learned how to play Chopin on the piano , and lost 13 kg ( 29 lb ) . The role won him an Academy Award for Best Actor , making him the youngest actor ever to win the award . He also won a Cesar Award for his performance , becoming the only American actor to win one . Throughout his career , Brody has been compared to Al Pacino and Marlon Brando for his unique looks and method acting . He is also widely known for giving presenter Halle Berry a back - breaking kiss after winning his Best Actor Oscar , and as the spokesman for fashion brand Ermenegildo Zegna . Brody appeared on Saturday Night Live on May 10 , 2003 , his first TV work , but he was banned from the show after giving an improvised introduction while wearing faux dreadlocks for Jamaican reggae musical guest Sean Paul ( the show 's producer , Lorne Michaels , is notorious for hating unscripted performances ) . However , the unscripted intro remains in reruns of the episode . Other TV appearances include NBC 's The Today Show and on MTV 's Punk'd after being tricked by Ashton Kutcher . After The Pianist Brody has appeared in three very different movies . He played Noah Percy , a mentally disabled young man in the movie The Village by M. Night Shyamalan , shell - shocked war veteran Jack Starks in The Jacket , and writer Jack Driscoll in the 2005 King Kong remake . He has also appeared in Diet Coke commercials and Tori Amos ' music video for " A Sorta Fairytale " . On January 5 , 2006 , Brody confirmed speculation that he indeed was interested and very willing to play the role of The Joker in 2008 's The Dark Knight . However 