Adrian Pang ( simplified Chinese : 彭耀顺 ; pinyin : Péng Yàoshùn ; born January 8 , 1966 ) is a Singaporean Chinese actor who trained at the ARTTS International in Bubwith , East Riding of Yorkshire , England . Although he studied law at Keele University , he has not practised since . He worked for a number of years in British theatre and television before returning to his native Singapore . While he was based in Britain , he would occasionally return to Singapore for stage work where he first caught the eye of Singaporeans when he starred in the Singaporean movie comedy Forever Fever ( 1998 ) . Upon returning home , he joined MediaCorp TV . He later switched to SPH MediaWorks as a producer - presenter when the new company was established in 2001 . It was around this time in 2001 that he moved back permanently to Singapore with his family . He quickly established himself as a household name through his work on Channel i . A versatile talent , he excelled in hosting as well as acting , such as in the comedy Durian King and the main actor in the channel 's final production , Six Weeks , before its impending merger with MediaCorp in 2005 . An original idea of his , Adrian co - wrote Six Weeks and was part of the creative process from start to finish . Re - employed by MediaCorp TV after the merger , he went on to appear in Chinese dramas on MediaCorp TV Channel 8 , such as the blockbuster drama Portrait of Home ( 同心圆 ) in 2005 . His portrayal of the eccentric Dadi earned him a Best Actor nomination in Star Awards 2005 . He achieved this accolade despite the fact that he is much more comfortable speaking in English than in Mandarin ( something many English - speaking Singaporeans can relate to ) . Indeed , he admitted he had much difficulty acting in the show . He even describes himself as a ' kentang ' , a Malay term , to describe someone who is very Westernised . He also starred in Jack Neo 's romantic comedy I Do I Do ( 2005 ) with Sharon Au. He also appears on Makan King on Channel U , Nine Lives on Arts Central and Maggi & Me on Channel 5. In March 2007 , he clinched the coveted Best Actor award at the national Life ! . Theater Awards for 2006 . He has also appeared in various theatrical performances such as Forbidden City : Portrait of An Empress ( 2002 ) , A Twist of Fate ( 2005 ) , and The Dresser , The Odd Couple and many others . Adrian 's humour makes him one of the more sought - after hosts in Singaporean media . He was the host for The Arena aired on Channel 5. And he played the male lead in the series Parental Guidance ( TV Series ) opposite Hong Kong actress , Jessica Hsuen . He has also helped to host the National Day Parade Celebrations in Singapore as well as Miss Singapore Universe . He is happily married to Tracie Howitt . They have 2 sons , Zack and Xander . 