Adrian Kayvan Pasdar ( born April 30 , 1965 ) is an American actor and film director , known for playing Jim Profit on the cult TV series Profit , for his roles in Near Dark , Mysterious Ways and as Nathan Petrelli on Heroes , and for directing the feature film Cement . Pasdar was born in Pittsfield , Massachusetts . His father , Homayoon Pasdar , was a cardiac surgeon who was born in Iran and moved to the United States , working as a surgeon near Philadelphia . His mother , Rosemarie Sbresny , was born in Königsberg , Germany , and worked as a nurse before becoming an English teacher in France . Pasdar won a football scholarship to the University of Florida . However , he was badly injured in a car accident during his freshman year . The accident left his face scarred , his legs badly injured , and kept him in a wheelchair for several months . Pasdar finished his freshman year in a wheelchair , doing intensive physical therapy and turning his attention to campus stage productions and rediscovering a childhood interest in writing and acting . No longer able to play football , he dropped out of school and returned home , taking a job with a theater group , People 's Light and Theatre Company . Here he worked on sound and lighting and also did set construction . One day , while constructing a set , he cut off the end of his left thumb . He used the resulting medical compensation to pay for attendance at the Lee Strasberg Theater Institute in Los Angeles . At the age of 19 , he auditioned for a role in Top Gun . Director Tony Scott was so impressed that he wrote the part of " Chipper " just for him . This led to bigger roles in Solarbabies ( 1986 ) , Streets of Gold ( 1986 ) , and Kathryn Bigelow 's 1987 cult vampire movie Near Dark ( 1987 ) , with Pasdar in the lead role of Caleb Colton . Other major roles include Vital Signs ( 1990 ) . In 1992 , he left Hollywood and returned to New York , working as a cashier for room and board , while taking the occasional small part , such as Frankie in Brian De Palma 's Carlito 's Way ( 1993 ) . Adrian Pasdar wrote and directed the short film Beyond Belief and directed his first feature film , the art - house neo - noir Cement , a contemporary re - telling of Othello , in 1999 . The $1.7 million independent feature , which won Best Picture awards on the festival circuit , starred Chris Penn , Jeffrey Wright , Sherilyn Fenn , Henry Czerny and was written by Farscape 's screenwriter Justin Monjo . Pasdar 's major break into television came in 1996 , when he was cast as the title character on the short - lived Fox series Profit . From 2000 to 2002 , Pasdar played the lead role of Anthropology Professor Declan Dunn in the spooky cult drama series Mysterious Ways on PAX . Pasdar played David McClaren in the final two seasons of the long - running CBS drama Judging Amy , from 2004 through 2005 . In 2006 , he had a high - profile guest role as Gabrielle Solis ' sleazy lawyer in Desperate Housewives . He currently stars in the NBC superhero drama Heroes as Nathan Petrelli . Anamarie " Pinky " Pasdar is the 