Adrienne Jo Barbeau ( born June 11 , 1945 ) is an American television , film , character and musical theater actress . She came to prominence through her roles as Beatrice Arthur 's divorced daughter , Carol Trainer , in the 1970s sitcom , Maude , and in several early 1980s horror and science fiction films . Barbeau was born in Sacramento , California to a French - Canadian father and an Armenian - American mother . In her autobiography , Barbeau says that she first caught the showbiz bug while entertaining troops at army bases throughout South East Asia touring with the San Jose Civic Light Opera . In the late 1960s , Barbeau moved to New York City and worked " for the mob " as a go - go dancer , as well as appearing Off - Broadway in a " nudie musical " called Stag Movie , before making her Broadway debut in Fiddler on the Roof , playing Tevye 's daughter , Hodel . She has since starred in over 25 musicals and plays , among them Women Behind Bars , The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas , and Grease , as tough - girl Rizzo , for which she received a Theater Guild award and a 1972 Tony Award nomination . During the 1970s , Barbeau had a thriving career on television , first appearing as the daughter of Bea Arthur 's character on the series , Maude , which ran from 1972 to 1978 . In her autobiography There Are Worse Things I Could Do she remarked " What I did n't know is that when I said , I was usually walking down a flight of stairs and no one was even listening to me . They were just watching my breasts precede me. " . She was also cast in numerous made - for - television films and guest appearances on cleavage - propelled shows such as The Love Boat , Fantasy Island , Valentine Magic on Love Island and Battle of the Network Stars . In her autobiography she claimed " I actually thought CBS asked me to be on Battle of the Network Stars because they thought I was athletic . The popularity of Barbeau 's 1978 cheesecake poster confirmed her status as a sex symbol . While reviewers have sometimes criticized her acting ability , Barbeau 's popularity stemmed partly from what critic Joe Bob Briggs referred to as the " two enormous talents on that woman " . Barbeau refused offers to appear topless in Playboy , although she has appeared nude in High Society ( July 1980 ) , in Off Broadway plays , and in films . Despite her initial success , she said at the time that she thought of Hollywood as a " flesh market " , and that she would rather appear in films that " explore the human condition " and " deal with issues " . Barbeau was cast by her then - husband , director John Carpenter , in his 1980 horror film , The Fog , which was her first theatrical film appearance . The film was released in on February 1 , 1980 and was a theatrical success , grossing over $21 million in the United States , and establishing Barbeau as a genre film star . She subsequently appeared in a number of early - 1980s horror and science fiction films , a number of which have now become cult classics , including Creepshow and Swamp Thing featuring a titillating scene of her wading through 