Agnes Robertson Moorehead ( December 6 , 1900 – April 30 , 1974 ) was an Oscar - nominated American character actress . Although she appeared in more than 70 films and on dozens of television shows during a career that spanned more than 30 years , she is most widely known for her role as the witch Endora in the television series Bewitched . While rarely playing leads in films , Moorehead 's skill at character development and range earned her one Emmy , and two Golden Globe awards in addition to four Oscar and six Emmy nominations . Moorehead 's transition to television won acclaim and accolades for her work in drama and in comedy . Moorehead was born in Clinton , Massachusetts of English , Irish , Scottish and Welsh ancestry , the only child of a Presbyterian minister . She later shaved six years off her age by claiming to have been born in 1906 . She grew up in St. Louis , Missouri , and was graduated from Central High School in 1918 . Moorehead earned a bachelor 's degree , with a major in biology , from Muskingum College in New Concord , Ohio in 1923 . When her family moved to Reedsburg , Wisconsin , she taught public school for five years in Soldiers Grove , Wisconsin , while earning a master 's degree in English and public speaking at the University of Wisconsin in Madison . She then pursued post - graduate studies at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts , from which she was graduated with honors in 1929 . Although Moorehead 's New York Times death notice ( May 1 , 1974 ) states that she attained a doctoral degree from Bradley University , in fact Bradley University did not offer doctoral degrees in literature at the time . Moorehead did receive an honorary doctoral degree from Bradley University . During her career , Moorehead 's varied performances established her as one of Hollywood 's premier character actresses . She appeared in many of the best known films of the time including Citizen Kane , The Magnificent Ambersons , and Johnny Belinda . Her film debut was as the title character 's mother in Citizen Kane . She famously won the New York Film Critics award as Best Actress for The Magnificent Ambersons , but was reduced to a nomination as Best Supporting Actress at the Oscars . She was nominated for multiple Academy Awards ( 1942 , 1944 , 1948 , 1964 ) , all as Best Supporting Actress , including a final nomination as the suspicious maid in Hush… Hush , Sweet Charlotte . She skillfully portrayed puritanical matrons , neurotic spinsters , possessive mothers , and comical secretaries throughout her career . Moorehead was part of Orson Welles ' Mercury Theatre on the Air radio program in the 1930s and appeared in Broadway productions of Don Juan in Hell in 1951 - 1952 , and Lord Pengo in 1962 - 1963 . During the 1940s and 1950s , she was one of the most in demand actresses for radio dramas , and in 1943 starred in the legendary radio suspense play Sorry , Wrong Number , written by Lucille Fletcher . Moorehead played a selfish , neurotic woman who overhears a murder being plotted via crossed phone wires who eventually realizes she is the intended victim . She recreated the performance many times on the radio , recorded an album of the drama in 1952 , and performed scenes from the story in her one - woman 