Aidan Quinn ( Irish : Aodhán Ó Cuinn ) ( born March 8 , 1959 in Rockford , Illinois , ) is an Irish American actor also known as Quinner . Aidan Quinn was born in Rockford , Illinois . He was raised in Chicago and Rockford by devoutly Catholic parents as well as in Dublin , Offaly , and other places in Ireland . His father was a professor in literature and his mother a homemaker ; he has an older brother , Declan Quinn , who is a noted cinematographer . Aidan Quinn got his start in the Chicago theatre at age 19 . He trained at Piven Theatre Workshop . His first significant film role was in Reckless ( 1984 ) , followed by a breakthrough role in Desperately Seeking Susan as the character " Dez " ( the love interest of the character played by Rosanna Arquette ) . Quinn next starred in the controversial TV movie An Early Frost , about a young lawyer dying of AIDS ( it was broadcast on NBC on November 11 , 1985 ) and co - starred such luminaries as Gena Rowlands , Ben Gazzara and Sylvia Sidney . Quinn lost a major role when Paramount Pictures dropped the controversial Martin Scorsese movie The Last Temptation of Christ . When Universal Pictures picked up the film , the role went to Willem Dafoe . Since then , Quinn 's roles have been mainly supporting roles in major studio films and leading roles in independent films , including appearances in The Handmaid 's Tale ( 1990 ) , Benny & Joon ( 1993 ) , Michael Collins ( 1996 ) , Practical Magic ( 1998 ) and Song For a Raggy Boy ( 2003 ) . Quinn is married to the actress Elizabeth Bracco , sister of actress Lorraine Bracco . Quinn was nominated in 1986 for an Emmy Award for lead actor in a miniseries or special for his performance in An Early Frost , but he lost to Dustin Hoffman , who won the award for his performance in Death of a Salesman . In 2006 , Quinn starred in the short lived drama The Book of Daniel which ran for 3 weeks on NBC ( before being cancelled ) . Quinn 's latest film Dark Matter debuted at the 2007 Sundance Film Festival . 