Aishwarya Rai ( Tulu - Kannada : ಐಶ್ವರ್ಯ ರೈ , Devanāgarī : ऐश्वर्या रय , IPA : ) ( born November 1 , 1973 ) , is a three - time Filmfare Award - winning Indian actress . She was Miss World in 1994 and has acted in Hindi , Urdu , Tamil , Bengali and English films . Rai is married to Indian actor Abhishek Bachchan and is daughter - in - law to Amitabh Bachchan.She is considered as the one of the biggest names in India and is one of the most successful actresses . Aishwarya Rai was born in Mangalore , in the South Indian state of Karnataka , to Krishnaraj Rai , a marine engineer , and Vrinda Rai , a writer . Her ancestors are from the Bunt ( community ) of Mangalore.Her family later relocated to Mumbai ( Bombay ) . Rai has one brother , Aditya Rai , who is three years older than she is . Aditya is a film producer , and has occasionally produced films in which Rai acted . Aditya got married in early 2004 . Rai attended the Arya Vidya Mandir at Santacruz , Mumbai , then entered Ruparel College , Matunga , Mumbai . She also speaks Hindi , English , Urdu , Marathi , Kannada and Tamil . Rai began modeling on the side while studying architecture . In the 1994 Miss India contest , she was placed second behind Sushmita Sen , and went on to win the Miss World title that same year and the Miss Photogenic award . After the one year reign as Miss World in London , she then worked as a professional model , in advertising and Indian fashion magazines . She has formerly dated Bollywood actors Salman Khan and Vivek Oberoi . After much speculation concerning their relationship , her engagement to Abhishek Bachchan was announced on January 14 , 2007 . The run - up as well as the marriage between Rai and Bachchan was heavily covered by the media . They married on April 20 , 2007 in a private ceremony held at the Bachchans ' bungalow Prateeksha .The newly married couple made their public appearance at Tirupati temple when they visited there for blessing . Aishwarya Rai will face the camera for the first time after marriage in Jodha - Akbar . This article does not cite any references or sources . Please help ] improve this article ] by adding citations to reliable sources . Unverifiable material may be challenged and removed . Aishwarya debuted in Mani Ratnam 's Tamil language film , Iruvar with Mohanlal . She was introduced to Bollywood in the film , Aur Pyaar Ho Gaya ; the film did not do well at the box office . However , her third project , a Tamil - language film , Jeans by S. Shankar was a critical and commercial success for which she was awarded the Filmfare Best Actress Award South . Aishwarya then appeared in many Bollywood films , a few successful films of her career include Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam ( 1999 ) and Taal ( 1999 ) for which her performance lauded . She was awarded the Filmfare Best Actress Award for her role in the former . In 2000 she had a supporting role in the hit film , Mohabbatein . Nevertheless , she has been in the limelight for quite some time for her relationships with Salman Khan and Vivek Oberoi . In 2002 , Rai appeared with superstars Shah Rukh Khan and Madhuri Dixit 