Aki Avni ( Hebrew : אקי אבני ) ( born April 27 , 1967 ) is an Israeli actor , entertainer and a television host . He appeared in the movie Free Zone with Natalie Portman . He also played the character Mohsen in the second season of the television series 24.Husband of Israeli supermodel Sandy Bar . Avni was born and raised in Rechovot . While in school he began performing in various shows in his home town . When growing up he had a mediocre modeling career , and afterwards served in the Israeli Air Force , where he practiced photography . Following his military service , he joined an entertainment troupe at a hotel in Eilat , appeared in children shows and in commercials , and trained at Yoram Levinstein 's acting studio . His big breakthrough arrived when he was elected to be a co - host in the " Tossess " youth television program in Israel 's Arutz 1 . In 1992 he co - starred in the musical " Lelackek T'toot " ( Licking the Strawberry ) , alongside Aviv Geffen in " Naarei Hachof " ( The Beach Boys ) and played a dramatic role of a young homosexual man in the film " Chesed Mufla " ( Amazing Grace ) . In 1993 he played in another film , called " Zarrim Balaila " ( Strangers in the Night ) . In 1994 , with the launching of Arutz 2 , Avni began hosting the date - show " Stutz " ( Fling ) and the musical " Pachot o Yoter " ( More or Less ) . In 1995 he hosted the Pre - Eurovision contest , participated in the film " Shachkanim " ( Actors ) and in the musical Grease and starred in the play " West Side Story " alongside Noa Tishby . However , so far Avni had been regarded as a mediocre actor only , known mainly as a television host and stage actor . But he came to critical aclaim , at home and abroad , with his stunning performance in " Time of Favor " in 2002 . Avni finished shooting his most recent film , Homeland Security , is in post - production . The film stars Antonio Banderas , Meg Ryan and Colin Hanks and is due to be released summer 2007 . This Israeli biographical article is a stub . 