Akira Kurosawa ( Kyūjitai : 黒澤 明 , Shinjitai : 黒沢 明 , Kurosawa Akira ? , 23 March , 1910—6 September , 1998 ) was a prominent Japanese film director , film producer , and screenwriter . His first credited film ( Sugata Sanshiro ) was released in 1943 ; his last ( Madadayo ) in 1993 . His many awards include the Legion d'Honneur and an Oscar for Lifetime Achievement . Akira Kurosawa was born to Isamu and Shima Kurosawa on March 23 , 1910 . He was the youngest of eight children born to the Kurosawas in a suburb of Tokyo . Shima Kurosawa was forty years old at the time of Akira 's birth and his father Isamu was forty - five . Akira Kurosawa grew up in a household with three older brothers and four older sisters . Of his three older brothers , one died before Akira was born and one was already grown and out of the household . One of his four older sisters had also left the home to begin her own family before Kurosawa was born . Kurosawa 's father worked as the director of a junior high school operated by the Japanese military and the Kurosawas descended from a line of former samurai . Financially , the family was above average . Isamu Kurosawa embraced western culture both in the athletic programs that he directed and by taking the family to see films , which were then just beginning to appear in Japanese theaters . Later when Japanese culture turned away from western films , Isamu Kurosawa continued to believe that films were a positive educational experience . In primary school Akira Kurosawa was encouraged to draw by a teacher who took an interest in mentoring his talents . His older brother , Heigo , had a profound impact on him . Heigo was very intelligent and won several academic competitions , but also had what was later called a cynical or dark side . In 1923 , the Great Kantō earthquake destroyed Tokyo and left 100,000 people dead . In the wake of this event , Heigo , 17 , and Akira , 13 , made a walking tour of the devastation . Corpses of humans and animals were piled everywhere . When Akira would attempt to turn his head away , Heigo urged him not to . According to Akira , this experience would later instruct him that to look at a frightening thing head - on is to defeat its ability to cause fear . Heigo eventually began a career as a benshi in Tokyo film theaters . Benshi narrated silent films for the audience and were a uniquely Japanese addition to the theater experience . However with the impact of talking pictures on the rise , benshi were losing work all over Japan . Heigo organized a benshi strike that failed . Akira was likewise involved in labor - management struggles , writing several articles for a radical newspaper while improving and expanding his skills as a painter and reading literature . Akira never considered himself a Communist despite his activities that he later would describe as reckless . When Akira Kurosawa was in his early 20s , his older brother Heigo committed suicide . Four months later , the oldest of Kurosawa 's brothers also died , leaving Akira as the only surviving son of an original four at age 23 . Kurosawa 's next - oldest sibling , a sister he called " Little Big Sister , " had also died suddenly after 