Akkineni Nagarjuna Rao ( Telugu : ఆక్కినేని నాగార్జున ) ( born August 29 , 1959 in Chennai , India ) , often known as Nagarjuna , is a popular Telugu Cinema actor and a successful producer . He is the son of veteran actor , Akkineni Nageswara Rao , who was an actor in the 60 's and 70 's . Nagarjuna was born to Telugu cinema star Akkineni Nageswara Rao and Annapurna Akkineni . Nagarjuna did his schooling at Hyderabad Public School and later went to Little Flower Junior College to do his intermediate . After that , he went on to do mechanical engineering in the highly - reputed College of Engineering , Guindy , Chennai ( also called as Anna University ) . He later attended the University of Michigan , Anne Arbor , where he got a masters degree in Automobile engineering . His first movie Vikram released on May 23 , 1986 was a remake of the Hindi film Hero . After acting in four films , he acted in Majnu as a tragedy hero ; similar roles were known to be his father 's forte . He acted with his father in the movie Collectorgari Abbayi . His first big hit was Akhari Poraatam co - starring Sridevi that ran for 100 days in 12 centers . Geethanjali a love story directed by Maniratnam followed by Shiva an action film directed by Ram Gopal Varma were highly successful and established him as one of the top heroes . He was known for encouraging new directors such as Ram Gopal Varma by giving them a chance to make movies with him . He also made his Bollywood debut with the Hindi remake of Shiva . Movies such as President Gari Pellam and Hello Brother gave him the status of a mass hero . After that , Ninne Pelladutha directed by Krishna Vamsi followed and was a huge hit . Later , he took up the challenge of portraying Annamacharya , the legendary singer / poet of medieval times in the movie Annamayya It ran for 100 days in 42 centers and is one of the biggest hits in Tollywood . He won the National Award for this role in Special Jury . He is the only actor in Tollywood to receive this award . In 2004 , Nagarjuna had two releases , Nenunnanu and Mass , both which went on to become super hits. . In 2005 , Nagarjuna had one release , Super . Super did n't reach upto the exceptations . In 2006 , Nagarjuna had two releases , Sri Ramadasu , a period film based on the life of great saint - composer Ramadasu , directed by K. Raghavendra Rao , and Boss , I Love You . Sri Ramadasu was a big hit at box office however Boss , I Love You was a flop . His next project is Don , which is directed by Raghava Lawrence . He revived his father’s production Annapurna Studios which has become one of the most successful production companies of recent times in Tollywood . Nagarjuna never hesitates to experiment when he produces films.He gave a chance to a newcomer who had no prior experience in movies to direct him . The newcomer did n't disappoint him and went on to become one of the finest directors of Indian film industry . The director is none other than RamGopal Verma . Nag is also known for his swiftness in decision making . He agreed to work with Krishna Vamsi ( director ) after seeing 