Al Lewis ( 30 April 1923 – 3 February 2006 ) was an American actor best known for his role as " Grandpa " on the television series The Munsters . Later in life , he was also a restaurant owner , political candidate , and radio broadcaster . My mother was a worker , worked in the garment trades . My mother was an indomitable spirit . My grandfather had no sons . He had six daughters . They lived in Poland or Russia , every five years it would change . My mother being the oldest daughter , they saved their money , and when she was about 16 they sent her to the United States , not knowing a word of English . She went to work in the garment center , worked her back and rear - end off and brought over to the United States her five sisters and two parents . I remember going on picket lines with my mother . My mother would n't back down to anyone . He stated the same information in an 10 April 1997 interview with correspondents Amy Goodman and Bernard White . He was born on 30 April 1923 , but few other facts about Lewis are known with any certainty ; most of the information comes from interviews he gave , but there are inconsistencies in his testimonies . Sometimes he gave his birth year as 1910 , other times 1923 . Ted Lewis , his son , said his father was born in 1923 . Dan Barry of the New York Times writes : " Actors who lie about their age usually subtract , not add , years , and few would have the nerve to fudge those years by more than a decade. " . Al may have been born under the name Albert Meister or Alexander Meister to a Jewish family in Brooklyn , New York . Other sources place his birth in Wolcott , New York , but no official record of his birth has been published to date , and officials in Wolcott say they have no record of any Meister . The Times wrote : “Lewis was born Albert Meister , probably in 1923 , although he insisted that he was born in 1910 . On his application for a Social Security number , completed sometime between 1936 and 1950 , Lewis gave a date of birth of 30 April 1923 . The date of birth must be verified by a birth certificate for the enrollee to receive age - related benefits . As to why Lewis might have lied about his age , the most common theory is that in 1963 ( at age 40 ) , trying to land the role of Grandpa , he might have been concerned about being a year younger than Yvonne De Carlo , who was cast to play his daughter , Lily . He said he moved to Brooklyn , New York with his family as a child and attended Thomas Jefferson High School , from which he left in his junior year . He later attended Oswego State Teachers College ( now SUNY Oswego ) . He also claimed he earned a Ph.D. in child psychology from Columbia University in 1941 . The university , though , has no record of this . In other interviews he also claimed he joined the Merchant Marine prior to World War II and spent time in Italy . In interviews he said he worked as a circus performer and as a hot dog vendor 