Pacino ( right ) in The Godfather ( 1972 ) . Alfredo James " Al " Pacino ( born April 25 , 1940 ) is an Academy Award , Emmy Award and Tony Award - winning American stage and film actor who played such iconic roles as Michael Corleone in The Godfather Trilogy and Tony Montana in the 1983 film Scarface . He is regarded by many as one of the best actors of his generation . Pacino was born on April 25 , 1940 in New York City 's Manhattan borough to Italian - American parents Salvatore Pacino and Rose Gerard ( the daughter of an Italian - born father and a New York - born mother of Italian descent ) . His parents divorced when Pacino was two years old , after which , Al and his mother moved to The Bronx , New York to live with his grandparents , who originated from Sicily . His father Salvatore moved to Covina , California , working as an insurance salesman and owner of his own restaurant called Pacino 's Lounge . Pacino attended Manhattan 's School of Performing Arts . Tough times forced the closure of Pacino 's in the early 1990s , now called Citrus Grill . Salvatore Pacino died on January 1 , 2005 at the age of 82 . In 1966 , Pacino studied under legendary acting coach Lee Strasberg ( alongside whom he would later feature in the 1974 film The Godfather Part II ) . He found acting to be an enjoyable talent that he had possessed since childhood , though it left him penniless and homeless . But by the end of the decade , he had won an Obie award for stage work in The Indian Wants the Bronx and a Tony award for Best Supporting Actor in the Broadway play , Does the Tiger Wear a Necktie ? . He made his first screen appearance in an episode of the television series N.Y.P.D. in 1968 , and his largely unnoticed movie debut in Me , Natalie came the following year . It was the 1971 film The Panic in Needle Park , in which he played a heroin addict , that would bring him to the attention of director Francis Ford Coppola . Al Pacino as the eponymous Frank Serpico . Pacino 's rise to fame came after portraying Michael Corleone in Coppola 's blockbuster 1972 Mafia film The Godfather and Frank Serpico in the eponymous 1973 movie . Although several established actors , including Robert Redford , Warren Beatty , and a little - known Robert De Niro were vying to portray Michael Corleone , director Coppola selected the relatively unknown Pacino , much to the dismay of studio executives . His performance earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor . In 1973 Pacino starred in the very successful Serpico and the less popular Scarecrow alongside Gene Hackman . In 1974 , Pacino reprised his role as Michael Corleone in the very successful sequel The Godfather Part II , acclaimed as being comparable to the original . In 1975 , he enjoyed further success with the release of Dog Day Afternoon , based on the true story of a bank robber John Wojtowicz . During the 1970s , Pacino had four Oscar nominations for Best Actor for his performances in Serpico , The Godfather Part II , Dog Day Afternoon , and . . .And Justice For All . Pacino in Dog Day Afternoon ( 1975 ) . Pacino continued his dedication to the stage , 