Alain Delon ( born 8 November , 1935 ) is a French - born actor , one of the best known outside his native country . Delon’s star rose quickly , and by the age of twenty - three he was garnering comparisons to French screen legends such as Gérard Philipe and Jean Marais , as well as American actor James Dean . He was even called the male Brigitte Bardot . Not wanting to fall back on his looks , Delon tried to take roles that presented him with more of a challenge . In particular he took parts playing a thief or gangster . One of the remarkable qualities about Delon’s performances is that despite the immorality of many of the characters he plays , he manages to make them charming , even likeable . Over the course of his career , Delon has worked with legendary directors , including Luchino Visconti , Jean - Luc Godard , Jean - Pierre Melville , Michelangelo Antonioni , and Louis Malle . Delon acquired Swiss citizenship in 1999 and the company managing products sold under his name is based in Geneva . Delon was born in Sceaux , a Paris suburb . His parents , Fabien and Édith , divorced when Delon was young . Both remarried , and Delon has a half - sister , and two half - brothers.He attended a Catholic boarding school , the first of several schools from which he was expelled , because of unruly behavior . Despite this behavior he was more than competent as a student . Teachers once tried to convince him to enter the priesthood because of his aptitude in religious studies . At fourteen Delon left school , and worked for a brief time at his stepfather 's butcher shop . He enlisted in the army three years later , and in 1953 was sent to fight in the First Indochina War . Delon has said that out of his five years of military service he spent 11 months in prison for being " undisciplined " . After being dishonorably discharged from the army he returned to Paris . He had no money , and got by on whatever employment he could find . He spent time working as a waiter , a porter , and a sales clerk . During this time he became friends with the actress Brigitte Auber , and joined her on a trip to the Cannes Film Festival , where his film career would begin . At Cannes , Delon was seen by a talent scout for David O. Selznick . After a successful screen test Selznick offered him a contract , provided he learn English . Delon returned to Paris to study English , but when he met French director Yves Allegret , he was convinced that he should stay in France to begin his career . Selznick allowed Delon to cancel his contract , and Allegret gave him his debut in the film Quand la Femme s'en Mele ( When the Woman Butts In ) . Delon then got to show a comedic aspect of himself in the film Faibles Femmes ( Women Are Weak ) . This was also the first of his films to be seen in America , where it became a success . The first role to really test Delon as a serious actor was in René Clement 's Purple Noon , which was based on the Patricia Highsmith novel The Talented Mr. Ripley . Delon played killer Tom Ripley , and the film went on to be 