Alain Resnais ( born June 3 , 1922 ) is a French film director whose early works are often grouped within the New Wave or Nouvelle Vague film movement . Although he has had a long and fruitful career , Resnais is best known internationally for three of his early works : Night and Fog ( 1955 ) , Hiroshima Mon Amour ( 1959 ) , and L'Année Dernière à Marienbad ( 1961 ) . Resnais was born in Vannes , France.Highly regarded in his native country , Resnais began making films in the mid - 1940s after completing his studies at L`Institut hautes études cinématographiques . He made several short films during this time , such as Guernica ( 1950 ) , based on the Picasso painting and the town and battle that inspired it . His seminal short Night and Fog ( 1955 ) was one of the first documentaries about the Jewish Holocaust . Resnais chose to approach the subject indirectly because he felt an excess of gruesome imagery might make the Holocaust seem unreal and incomprehensible to his viewers . Instead he chose to film the empty concentration camps as they appeared in the fifties and avoided using stock footage of the actual holocaust until the very end of the film . Resnais ' most famous feature films also use innovative techniques to explore the subjectivity of memory in dealing with past violence and horrors . He completed his first full - length film , Hiroshima , Mon Amour , in 1959 . It is a romantic drama about a young French woman appearing in an anti - war film in the rubble and reconstruction of the city of Hiroshima . There , she has a brief unstable affair with a Japanese architect . The affair brings to light the political and cultural tensions that underlie even their most personal experiences and memories . The film made groundbreaking use of then innovative flashbacks to explore her repressed memories of a German lover killed in World War 2. This movie was a great success for Resnais , garnering him international fame and cementing his place in French cinema history . In 1960 Resnais completed his other world classic Last Year at Marienbad in partnership with writer / filmmaker Alain Robbe - Grillet . The film concerns a man known only as X who meets a woman named Y at an old - fashioned resort and attempts to convince her that they met once before there under questionable circumstances . In this film Resnais took his exploration of subjective memory to shockingly experimental lengths , creating an unstable reality that shifts fluidly along with its characters ' perceptions . Similar scenes play out in different ambiguous versions , and the viewer is unable to ascertain whether X is a villain who actually raped Y or a hero / lover who helps her to escape from this prison - like resort . Resnais was a contemporary , but not fully a member , of the French New Wave , the group of critics - turned - filmmakers that included François Truffaut and Jean - Luc Godard . More precisely , Resnais belonged to the filmmaking and literary community of the Left Bank , which included Agnès Varda , Jacques Demy and other filmmakers and authors with a commitment to modernism and little debt to the American cinema . He worked regularly during the 1960s and ' 70s . Although not especially prolific , he has nonetheless achieved great success . In the 1980s , he experienced a disappointment after 