Alan Cumming ( born 27 January 1965 ) is a Scottish actor known for his film roles in GoldenEye , as Boris Grishenko ; in X2 : X - Men United , as Kurt Wagner / Nightcrawler ; and on the stage with his Tony Award - winning performance as the Emcee in the highly successful revival of Cabaret . Cumming has directed , produced , and written films , TV series and plays , voiced several soundtracks , written a book , developed a stand - up show at the Edinburgh Fringe , and formed his own production company . Cumming was born in Aberfeldy , Perth and Kinross , Scotland , to Mary and Alex Cumming , a forester . He has one older brother , Tom . The boys endured a strict upbringing , and Cumming has described how he was beaten by his father if he did n't complete his chores . Alan reportedly maintains a good relationship with his mother , however . Cumming attended Monikie Primary School and Carnoustie High School and originally aspired to a career in veterinary medicine , but a personality clash with his biology teacher put him off the idea and he subsequently set his sights on becoming an actor . Following graduation , he spent a year and a half employed as an editor for the Scottish pop magazine TOPS before entering the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama . Cumming has spread his career evenly between film , television , and stage . He has also regularly worked both on and off - camera , as well as developing his own personal projects . Cumming 's first professional acting role was as a minor character , Jamie , in the miniseries The Travelling Man , in 1984 , which he filmed while attending the Academy . He recalls , " I had never been on a film set before , I was completely green and utterly in awe of the whole thing . I thought that you had to act really small because it was television and so as a consequence I hardly moved ! " . After graduating in 1985 with a BA in Dramatic Studies , Cumming began his career proper by appearing in the long - running Scottish soap opera Take the High Road , in 1986 . He had made his film debut in 1985 , with Passing Glory . In 1992 , he starred in Prague , in which he played Alexander Novak , a young Scot who is searching for a piece of film of his grandparents being taken by the Nazis . His performance won him Best Actor at the Atlantic Film Festival , and a nomination for a Scottish BAFTA Best Film Actor award . Cumming has often been utilised as a character actor ; he was the hedonistic Lord Rochester in Plunkett and Macleane and the misguided scientist Fegan Floop in Spy Kids and its sequels . A versatile actor , in 1991 , he played the comedic lead in the BBC film , Bernard and the Genie opposite Lenny Henry , and in 1993 appeared as a villain in the The Airzone Solution . The following year , he starred as airline steward Sebastian Flight in the Scottish sitcom , The High Life , which he wrote with co - star Forbes Masson , and for which he also wrote the theme tune and much of the music . His friendship with Masson went back to their days at drama school together , and in their first 