Alan Hale Jr. ( born Alan Hale Mackahan , March 8 , 1921 – January 2 , 1990 ) was an American movie and television actor , best known for his role as the Skipper , Jonas Grumby , on the popular sitcom Gilligan 's Island . He was born in Los Angeles , California . His father , character actor Alan Hale Sr. ( who looked almost exactly like his son , the most uncanny being his appearance in " It Happened One Night " as the wily singing road thief ) , had a successful career in movies including the role of Little John in both the Douglas Fairbanks and Errol Flynn versions of Robin Hood . Hale Sr. is probably best known for having appeared in almost every Errol Flynn film and acted in 235 movies altogether . While his father was adapting to sound films , Hale Jr. started his career while still a baby . During the Second World War , he enlisted in the United States Coast Guard . After his father 's death in 1950 , Junior was dropped from his name . His mother would go on to live until 1979 . His first important roles were as a member of Gene Autry 's recurring cast of players . During the late 1940s and early 1950s , he frequently appeared in Gene Autry movies and The Gene Autry Show on TV . He also starred in television series , such as 1952 - 53 's Biff Baker U.S.A . . He later took part in sitcoms such as Casey Jones ( 1957 ) and The Good Guys ( 1968 - 70 ) . In 1962 , Hale also appeared on The Andy Griffith Show as Jeff Pruitt , a rough , back - woods bachelor who comes to Mayberry to find a bride . In the episode , he refers to Barney Fife more than once as " little buddy , " a nick name he would later use in his role as Skipper . He made his greatest mark on pop culture with his role as the Skipper on Gilligan 's Island , which ran from 1964 to 1967 . During his career , he was noted for his supporting character roles in such movies as Up Periscope , The Lady Takes a Flyer , The Giant Spider Invasion , Hang Em High with Clint Eastwood and The West Point Story . Living in Hollywood for his post - television years , Hale died at St. Vincent 's Medical Center in Los Angeles from respiratory failure due to cancer of the thymus . Alan Hale Jr. on Gunsmoke . The popularity of Gilligan 's Island typecast its actors , making it difficult for them to find other acting work . However , Alan Hale often said he did n't mind being so closely identified with the Skipper . He owned a restaurant in the Beverly Hills area ( " Alan Hale 's Lobster Barrel " ) and would often greet customers in his " Skipper " hat . Alan Hale was known for his great love of children . When he was dying of cancer , he learned there was a sick child in the same hospital who loved the show . He went to see the boy and said " The Skipper 's here , son , everything is going to be all right. " . During the weekends of 1974 to 1977 , a new generation enjoyed the cartoon version of The New Adventures of Gilligan and by 1978 