Carlos Alan Autry ( born July 31 , 1952 ) is an American actor , politician , and former NFL football player . He is best known for his role as Captain Bubba Skinner on the television series In the Heat of the Night . He appeared in numerous movies and television shows and was later elected mayor of Fresno , California . Autry was born in Shreveport , Louisiana , the son of Carl Autry and Verna Brown . His name was changed to Carlos Brown when he was a year old , after his parents divorced . He worked alongside his mother and stepfather Joe Duty in the fields of California 's San Joaquin Valley , planting and harvesting cotton , grapes and other crops . They travelled around the valley living in worker camps . When he was 12 , they settled in Riverdale , California . In high school , he was a star quarterback for the Riverdale Cowboys . He received an athletic scholarship to the University of the Pacific in Stockton , California , where he was a quarterback for the Tigers . In 1975 , he was drafted by the Green Bay Packers , where he was a second string and briefly in 1977 , starting quarterback . When his football career ended , he came to Hollywood , making his film debut in the 1978 motion picture Remember My Name . He met his biological father Carl Autry for the first time in 1982 while on location in Shreveport , for the motion picture Southern Comfort , after finding his name in the phone book . Afterwards , he made the decision to return to his birth name Autry . By 1986 , he was a born - again Christian and began to devote much of his time to working with charitable causes.He is married to Kimberlee Autry and they have three children . Autry was elected Mayor of Fresno , California in November 2000 by defeating former mayor Dan Whitehurst . He succeeded Jim Patterson . His first term was from January 2001 to January 2005.He was re - elected on March 2 , 2004 with over 72 percent of the vote.His second term will be from January 2005 to January 2009 . In August 2004 , he demonstrated his opposition to gay marriage by holding a heterosexual - only " Marriage Commitment Day " event at City Hall , prompting minor protests from the city 's gay and lesbian community . In 1997 he started his own production company Dirt Road Productions . In 2002 he released The Legend of Jake Kincaid , a western based on a story he wrote . He also directed the film . Alan Autry and his In the Heat of the Night co - star Randall Franks joined forces under the banner of Autry - Franks Productions to produce the charity " In the Heat of the Night " CD " Christmas Time 's A Comin ' " featuring the cast of the show . Franks producing , Autry performed his rendition of " Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer " in homage to Gene Autry . The duo both performed on " Jingle Bells " and " Christmas Time 's A Comin ' . " Franks and Autry were able to include many music legends , some among them , Country Music Hall of Famers Kitty Wells , Jimmy Dickens and Pee Wee King as well as almost every top legend from the Bluegrass genre , from Jim and Jesse to the The Lewis 