Alan Alda ( b . January 28 , 1936 ) is an Emmy Award - winning , Academy Award - nominated American actor . He is perhaps most famous for his role as Hawkeye Pierce in the television series M * A * S * H . During the 1970s and 1980s he was viewed as the archetypal sympathetic male , though in recent years he has appeared in roles which counter that image . Alda was born Alfonso Joseph D'Abruzzo in New York City . His Italian - American father , Robert Alda ( 1914 - 1986 ) aka Alfonso Giuseppe Giovanni Roberto D'Abruzzo , was an actor , and his mother Joan Brown was crowned Miss New York in a beauty pageant . Their adopted surname " Alda " is a combination of ALfonso and D'Abruzzo . Alda 's half - brother , Antony Alda , was christened Antonio D'Abruzzo on 9 December 1956 . Alda contracted polio , aged 7 , during an epidemic . His parents administered a painful treatment , developed by Sister Elizabeth Kenny , where hot woolen blankets were applied to the limbs and the muscles were stretched by massage . He attended Archbishop Stepinac High School in White Plains , NY and later received his bachelor 's degree from Fordham University in 1956 . During his junior year , he studied in Europe where he acted in a play in Rome and performed with his father on television in Amsterdam . After graduation , he joined the U.S. Army Reserve and served a six - month tour of duty as a gunnery officer in Korea following the Korean War . A year after graduation , he married Arlene Weiss , with whom he has three daughters ; Eve , Elizabeth , and Beatrice , and a grandson , Scott . Arlene Alda is an accomplished photographer , author , and musician . Alda was a member of the Compass Players in the late 1950s . He has also been an activist for feminism for many years . Alda began his career in the 1950s as a member of the Compass Players comedy revue . In the 11 years he starred in M * A * S * H , he was nominated for 21 Emmy Awards , winning five . He took part in writing 20 episodes , and directed 30 . When he won his first Emmy Award for writing , he was so happy that he performed a cartwheel before running up to the stage to accept the award . He also was the first person to win Emmy Awards for acting , writing , and directing for the same series . Richard Hooker , who wrote the novel on which M * A * S * H was based , did not like Alan Alda 's portrayal of Hawkeye Pierce ( Hooker , a Republican , had based Hawkeye on himself , whereas Alda took the character in a more left - wing direction ) . Alda also directed the show 's 1983 2½ hour series finale " Goodbye , Farewell , and Amen " which remains the single most watched episode of a TV series . Alda is in fact the only series regular to appear in each and every one of 251 episodes . As more and more of the original series writers left the series , Alda gained more control and by the final seasons he had become project and creative consultant . Under his watch , M * A * S * H more openly 