Alan Sidney Patrick Rickman ( born February 21 , 1946 ) is an acclaimed , award - winning English film , television and stage actor . Rickman was born in Hammersmith , London to a working - class family . His father , Bernard Rickman , was an Irish Catholic factory worker , and his mother , Margaret Doreen Rose , was a Methodist Welsh housewife . His father died when Rickman was eight , leaving his mother ( whom he has always held in the highest respect ) to raise their four children mostly alone . He says she married again , but divorced his stepfather after three years . Rickman attended the Chelsea College of Art and made his way as a graphic artist in Soho . He received a scholarship to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art ( RADA ) which he attended from 1972 - 1974 . While there , he won the Emile Littler Prize , the Forbes Robertson Prize , and the Bancroft Gold Medal . Since then , he has been a constant presence on the British stage . A speech defect and an unusual tightness of his jaw have been credited with giving him his unique voice and line delivery . Rickman has worked extensively with various British repertory and experimental theatre groups on productions including The Seagull and Snoo Wilson 's The Grass Widow at the Royal Court , and has appeared three times at the Edinburgh International Festival . While working with the Royal Shakespeare Company he starred in , among other things , As You Like It. He made a particular impression as the male lead in the 1985 Royal Shakespeare Company production of Les Liaisons Dangereuses . In 1986 he earned critical and popular acclaim as the elegant and heartless seducer . When the show came across the Atlantic in 1986 , Rickman came with it to Broadway and there earned a Tony Award nomination for his performance . You can reveal things about yourself or you can hide . To television audiences he also became known as Mr. Slope in the BBC 's 1980s adaptation of Barchester Towers . He played future Irish Taoiseach and president Éamon de Valera in the film Michael Collins alongside Liam Neeson . While playing romantic leads in British movies ( Colonel Brandon in Sense and Sensibility and Truly , Madly , Deeply ) , he was generally typecast in Hollywood movies as an over - the - top villain ( German terrorist Hans Gruber in Die Hard and the Sheriff of Nottingham in Robin Hood : Prince of Thieves ) . His role in Die Hard earned him a spot on the American Film Institute 's list of the " 100 Best Heroes / Villains " as the 46th best villain in film history . Rickman has also demonstrated considerable talent as a comedy actor in films such as Galaxy Quest , Dogma , and Love Actually . He won a Golden Globe and an Emmy for his performance as Rasputin in 1996 . He is also the Potions professor Severus Snape in the Harry Potter movies . More recently , Rickman was cast as the voice of Marvin in The Hitchhiker 's Guide to the Galaxy movie . Coincidentally , Rickman and David Learner , who occupied Marvin 's costume for the TV adaptation and stage shows , studied together at the RADA . Rickman will continue playing the Potions Master Severus Snape in the fifth installment , Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix , which is currently 