Alan Ball ( born May 13 , 1957 in Atlanta , Georgia ) is an Academy Award - winning screenwriter , director , producer and occasional actor , who is best known for writing the screenplay for the Oscar - winning film American Beauty , and for creating the HBO original drama series Six Feet Under . Alan Ball was an undergraduate student of the Florida State University School of Theatre . He did not receive a diploma ; however he informed reporters , after winning an Emmy for directing at the 54th Emmy Awards , that he did start writing and producing his own work at FSU and has been doing so since . Ball started out by writing for the TV show Cybill , starring Cybill Shepherd , and he stated that he based the horrific suburban wife character played by Annette Bening in American Beauty on Shepherd , who has earned a reputation for being extremely difficult to work with , from both male and female co - workers . Ball has also written scripts for stage plays such as Five Women Wearing the Same Dress , Bachelor Holiday , Power Lunch and Your Mother 's Butt . He is openly gay and his work frequently includes gay themes and characters . In 2004 , he acquired the film rights to the Alicia Erian novel Towelhead , published on April 6 , 2005 , and he announced that he would write the screenplay and direct the film entitled Nothing is Private , which would start production in 2006 after having wrapped up the fifth and final season of Six Feet Under . The film wrapped shooting in November 2006 and is based on the novel about a young Arab - American woman growing up in Texas who struggles with her identity , just as she falls for a bigoted Army reservist during the Gulf War . Aaron Eckhart , Toni Collette and Maria Bello are on board to star , as is newcomer Summer Bishil , who will play the protagonist . In 2005 it was announced that Ball would undertake the writing and direction of a new HBO series based upon Charlaine Harris ' Southern Vampire Mysteries . The series , about a single barmaid and her adventures with the coming - out - of - the - coffin - undead , is to be titled " True Blood " and is slated to air in Autumn 2007 . In January 2007 , the premier of his play " All That I Will Ever Be " opened at New York Theatre Workshop in New York City . Ball has written nine episodes for his series Six Feet Under and has directed six episodes including the series finale . 