Albert Brooks ( born July 22 , 1947 as Albert Lawrence Einstein ) is an Academy Award nominated American actor , writer , comedian and director . Brooks was born Albert Lawrence Einstein in Beverly Hills , Los Angeles , California where he attended Beverly Hills High School and was born into a Jewish American family . His father , Harry Einstein , was a comedian who performed on Eddie Cantor 's radio program and was known as Parkyarkarkus . His mother was actress Thelma Leeds ( born Thelma Goodman ) . His brother is Bob Einstein , better known by his stage name " Super Dave Osborne " . Brooks grew up among show business royalty in southern California , attending high school with Richard Dreyfuss and Rob Reiner . Brooks attended Carnegie Tech in Pittsburgh , but dropped out after one year to focus on his comedy career . He changed his surname from Einstein ( to avoid confusion with the famous scientist ) and began a stand - up comedy career that quickly made him a regular on variety and talk shows during the late 1960s and early 1970s . Brooks led a new generation of self - reflective baby - boomer comics appearing on the NBC network Tonight Show starring Johnny Carson . His onstage persona , that of an egotistical , narcissistic , nervous comic , an ironic showbiz insider who punctured himself before an audience by disassembling his mastery of comedic stagecraft , influenced other 70 's post - modern comedians , including Steve Martin , Martin Mull and Andy Kaufman . After two successful comedy albums , Comedy Minus One ( 1974 ) and the Grammy Award - nominated A Star is Bought ( 1975 ) , Brooks left the standup circuit to try his hand as a filmmaker ; his first film , The Famous Comedians School , was a satiric short which appeared on PBS and was an early example of the mockumentary sub - genre . In 1976 he appeared in his first mainstream film role , in Scorsese 's landmark Taxi Driver ( Scorsese allowed Brooks to improvise much of his dialogue ) . The role reflected Brooks 's decision to move to Los Angeles to get into the film business . In an interview with Brooks , he mentioned a conversation he'd had with Taxi Driver screenwriter Paul Schrader , in which Schrader said that Brooks ' character was the only one in the movie that he could n't " understand " - - a remark that Brooks found amusing , as the movie 's anti - hero was a psychotic loner . Brooks directed his first feature film , Real Life , in 1979 . The film , in which Brooks obnoxiously films a typical suburban family in an effort to win both an Oscar and a Nobel Prize , was a sendup of PBS 's An American Family documentary . Brooks also made a brief cameo in the film Private Benjamin ( 1980 ) , starring Goldie Hawn . Through the 1980s and 1990s , Brooks co - wrote ( with longtime collaborator Monica Johnson ) , directed and starred in a series of moderately - successful comedies , playing variants on his standard neurotic and self - obsessed character . These include 1981 's Modern Romance , where Brooks played a film editor desperate to win back his ex - girlfriend ( Kathryn Harrold ) . The film received a limited release and ultimately grossed under $3 million domestically , but was well received by 