Albert Dekker ( December 20 , 1905 – May 5 , 1968 ) was an American character actor . He is sometimes credited as Albert Van Dekker or Albert van Dekker . Born Albert Ecke in Brooklyn , New York , he adopted his mother 's maiden name of Dekker as his stage name . Whether the " Van " used in his earlier career was of historical origin in the family or was an affectation is unclear . He made his Broadway debut in 1927 , and was soon cast in Eugene O'Neill 's play Marco Millions ( 1928 ) . On April 4 , 1929 , he married actress Esther Guernini ; they had two sons and a daughter . After a solid , if undistinguished , career on the stage playing both comedy and drama , he transferred to Hollywood in 1937 . He spent most of the rest of his acting career in the cinema , but from time to time he returned to the stage . He replaced Lee J. Cobb as Willy Loman in the original production of Arthur Miller 's Death of a Salesman , and during a five - year stint back on Broadway in the early sixties , he played the Duke of Norfolk in Robert Bolt 's A Man for All Seasons . He appeared in some seventy films from the 1930s to 1960s , but his three most famous screen roles were as a mad scientist in Dr. Cyclops ( 1940 ) , as a vicious hitman in the The Killers ( 1946 ) , and as an unscrupulous railroad detective in The Wild Bunch ( 1969 ) . From 1945 to 1946 , Dekker served as a Democratic member of the California State Legislature , for the 57th Assembly District which included Hollywood . In May of 1968 , Dekker was found dead in the bathtub at his home in Hollywood , California . He was bound , handcuffed , ball - gagged and drugged . His death appeared to be from autoerotic asphyxia , although there were reports that it was a murder made to look like such , or a suicide . It was finally ruled that he died of accidental asphyxiation . Although a divorced father of three children , with a girlfriend at the time of his death , the circumstances of the tragedy suggested that he might have been a closeted bisexual ; notably , he had words indicating a liking of certain homosexual acts written on his chest and back . 