Alberto Sordi , also known as Albertone , ( June 15 1920 , Rome - February 25 2003 , Rome ) was a beloved Italian actor and a film director . He was also the voice of Oliver Hardy in the Italian version of the Laurel & Hardy films . Born in Rome to a schoolteacher and a musician , Sordi enrolled in Milan 's dramatic arts academy but was kicked out because of his thick Roman accent . Ironically , it was his accent that would later prove to be his trademark . In a career that spanned seven decades , Sordi established himself as an icon of Italian cinema with his representative skill at both comedy and drama . His movie career began in the late working as a dubber for the Italian versions of Laurel and Hardy shorts , voicing Oliver Hardy . Early roles included Fellini’s The White Sheik in 1952 , Fellini 's I Vitelloni ( 1953 ) , a movie about young slackers , in which he plays a weak , effeminate immature loafer and a starring role in Lo Scapolo ( The Bachelor ) playing a single man trying to find love . In 1959 he appeared in Monicelli 's The Great War , considered by many critics and film historians to be one of the best Italian comedies . The Hollywood Foreign Press recognized his abilities when he was awarded a Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture Actor in a Musical or Comedy for Il Diavolo ( 1963 ) . Sordi acted alongside Britain’s David Niven in the World War II comedy The Best of Enemies and in 1965 he was in another highly regarded comedy , I Complessi ( Complexes ) . Sordi was really masterful in two broad roles : one being the one of the underdog , tribulating against injustices and prevarications , the other that of the prevaricator himself . A little more should be said about Sordi 's brilliant performance in the comedy released in the US about 1965 under the title " To Bed Or Not Too Bed " . He is an apparently ordinary Italian fur merchant who , leaving his faithful , but somewhat dowdy , wife and kids , goes to Stockholm to buy furs . The long rail trip stretches on until the train gets on the car ferry between Denmark and Sweden . A long - legged blonde Scandinavian beauty falls asleep with her booted legs stretched between his in the compartment . This is a preview of the exotic , erotic adventure he is to have . His fur buying done , he comes into social contact with the Swedes . He commits various comical gaffes due to the difference in cultures , like apologizing to the husband with whose wife he has had a bit of adventure . The last scene in Sweden has him engaging in a decadent game with the Swedes in which old used cars are driven out onto a frozen lake and smashed into each other . He returns to wife and family , delighted to see him back and never imagining his adventures . Sordi won five David di Donatello , Italy 's most prestigious film award , and four awards for his works from the Italian National Syndicate of Film Journalists . He also received a Golden Lion for lifetime achievement at the Venice Film Festival in 1995 , and The Golden Globe Award for his performance as an Italian labourer stranded in Sweden in To Bed or Not to Bed . In 