Sir Alec Guinness CH CBE ( April 2 , 1914 – August 5 , 2000 ) was an Academy Award and Tony Award - winning English actor who became one of the most versatile and best - loved performers of his generation . He was born in London , England , allegedly as Alec Guinness de Cuffe , although what is written on his birth certificate , which reportedly lacked a father 's name , is not known . His mother 's maiden name was Agnes Cuff . She would later marry Alec 's stepfather , a mentally ill soldier from the Anglo - Irish War who was suffering from what would eventually become known as post - traumatic stress disorder . Guinness first worked writing copy for advertising before making his debut at the Albery Theatre in 1936 at the age of 22 , playing the role of Osric in John Gielgud 's wildly successful production of Hamlet . During this time he worked with many actors and actresses who would become his friends and frequent co - stars in the future , including John Gielgud , Peggy Ashcroft , Anthony Quayle , and Jack Hawkins . An early influence from afar was Stan Laurel , whom Guinness admired . Guinness continued working in Shakespeare throughout his career . In 1937 he played the role of Aumerle in Richard II and Lorenzo in The Merchant of Venice under the direction of John Gielgud . He starred in a 1938 production of Hamlet which won him acclaim on both sides of the Atlantic . He also appeared as Romeo in a production of Romeo and Juliet ( 1939 ) , Andrew Aguecheek in Twelfth Night and Chorus in Henry V in 1937 , both opposite Laurence Olivier , and Ferdinand in The Tempest , opposite Gielgud as Prospero . In 1939 he adapted Charles Dickens ' novel Great Expectations for the stage , playing the part of Herbert Pocket . The play was a success ; one of its viewers was a young British film editor named David Lean , who had Guinness reprise his role in the former 's 1946 film adaptation of the play . Alec Guinness served in the Royal Navy throughout World War II , serving first as a seaman in 1941 and being commissioned the following year . He commanded a landing craft taking part in the invasion of Sicily and Elba and later ferried supplies to the Yugoslav partisans . During the war , he appeared in Terence Rattigan 's West End Play for Bomber Command , Flare Path . He returned to the Old Vic in 1946 and stayed through 1948 , playing Abel Drugger in Ben Jonson 's The Alchemist , the Fool in King Lear opposite Laurence Olivier in the title role , DeGuiche in Cyrano de Bergerac opposite Ralph Richardson in the title role , and finally starring in an Old Vic production himself as Shakespeare 's Richard II . After leaving the Old Vic , he had a success as the Uninvited Guest in the Broadway production of T.S. Eliot 's The Cocktail Party ( 1950 , revived at the Edinburgh Festival in 1968 ) , but his second attempt at the title role of Hamlet , this time under his own direction at the New Theatre ( 1951 ) , proved a major theatrical disaster . A scene from the Ladykillers , Guinness plays Prof. Marcus who stands in the centre . He was initially mainly associated with the Ealing comedies , and particularly for playing eight different 