Aleksander Moisiu ( April 2 , 1879 – March 22 , 1935 ) ( aka Alexander Moissi ) was a famous Albanian stage actor . He was born in Durrës on the central Adriatic coast of Albania . His father was Albanian and his mother Arbëresh , an Albanian speaker from southern Italy . After an international childhood in Durrës , Trieste and Graz , twenty - year - old Aleksander finally settled with his mother and two sisters in Vienna . It was there , with the encouragement and support of Austrian actor Josef Kainz ( 1858–1910 ) , that Moisiu 's career as one of great European stage actors of the early - 20th century began . The following years took him to Prague and then to Berlin , where he became a protégé of the influential director Max Reinhardt ( 1873 - 1943 ) . Moisiu followed the Reinhardt Ensemble to Russia in 1911 and was acclaimed in St. Petersburg by critic and dramatist Anatoliy Lunacharsky ( 1875–1933 ) for his interpretation of Œdipus . Travelling all over Europe and the Americas , his most famous rôle was Fedya in Tolstoy 's Buried Alive ( or The Living Corpse ) — performed 1400 times by him and seen by more than one - and - a - half - million people . His repertoire of leading roles encompassed the whole spectrum of European drama , from Greek tragedy to twentieth century modernism . He was the first in Europe to interpret characters from Strindberg , Tolstoy , Chekhov , Pirandello , and Hofmannsthal . His interpretations in the leading roles of Hamlet , Œdipus , Faust , Dubedat ( in George Bernard Shaw 's The Doctor 's Dilemma ) , and many others , were celebrated at the time , as were his voice and emotional range . Though primarily a stage actor , Moisiu also appeared in ten film productions from 1910 to 1935 , of which seven were silent . Given an Albanian passport at his own request in 1934 , Aleksander Moisiu died on March 22 , 1935 and lies buried at the Morcote cemetery overlooking Lake Lugano in Switzerland . In his honour , the High College of Drama in Tirana , and the Professional Theatre of Durrës , Albania , are named " Aleksander Moisiu. " . The 60th anniversary of his death was remembered in Albania in 1995 with an " Artistic Year " dedicated to him ; it was sponsored by the Aleksander Moisiu Foundation in Durrës . In order not to be frozen he takes the sun of his country whenever he goes . 