Alessandro Juliani is a Canadian actor and singer . He currently stars as Tactical Officer Lieutenant Felix Gaeta on the Sci Fi Channel television program Battlestar Galactica . He is a graduate of McGill University in Montreal , where he earned a Bachelor of Music in Vocal / Opera Performance . He is the son of producer , actor and writer John Juliani . During his time at McGill 's Faculty of Music Juliani was known for his pleasant baritone voice , accurate intonation , and strong sight - reading skills , enabling him to find frequent work substituting in professional choirs , noteably at Montreal 's Christ Church Cathedral . He was also the voice of Pit ( erroneously called Kid Icarus ) in the Captain N : The Game Master cartoon series , and offered his voice in many other cartoons and anime including ( but certainly not limited to ) Ranma 1 / 2 , X - Men Evolution ( as Gambit ) , the three My Scene films ( in the role of River ) and two of the Bionicle films ( as Toa Vakama ) . He was also the voice of one of a male leads in Barbie as the Princess and the Pauper , a Barbie movie based on the Mark Twain story " The Prince and the Pauper " , in which he also performed his own singing ; he also voiced the merman prince Nalu in Barbie : Fairytopia and Barbie : Mermaidia . Another recent role is as Koji in the English version of Ōban Star - Racers . In addition to his television and film work , Juliani frequently appears on stage , both in Vancouver ( where he has earned multiple nominations for Vancouver theatre 's " Jessie " awards ) and elsewhere . In Vancouver , he has been in productions staged by Bard on the Beach , Vancouver Playhouse , and the Vancouver Opera . Further afield , he has appeared in the Aldeburgh Festival in England and the Orlando Shakespeare Festival . In 2003 , the cult Battlestar Galactica ( 1978 TV series ) was brought back to life , albeit in a reimagined form , as a three hour miniseries . The project was written and produced by Ronald D. Moore and directed by Michael Rymer . Alessandro Juliani starred as Felix Gaeta , a Lieutenant in the Colonial Fleet , in the reimagined Battlestar Galactica ( TV miniseries ) . The Miniseries effectively served as pilot for a potential TV show . A TV series was commissioned in a collaborative effort between the Sci Fi Channel ( United States ) and Sky TV ( the British broadcaster ) . Battlestar Galactica is filmed mostly in Vancouver , Canada and is currently in its third season in which Alessandro Juliani is a regular cast member . His character did not feature in the original 1978 series . Interview in Vancouver Courier . 