Alexandra Ann McLeod ( born in Galveston , Texas ) is an American television host and entertainment news correspondent best known for being the original hostof TLC’s hit cable show , Trading Spaces . She initially got her start as a comedic actress and became a household name by hosting the first forty episodes of the reality based home improvement series that launched the makeover show phenomenon . McLeod was born and raised in Galveston , Texas in the United States . In Texas , her father was a politician and real estate developer , her mother a teacher . As a young girl she spent a lot of time on the campaign trail with her father , a former Texas state legislator . McLeod attended the prestigious Kinkaid High School in Houston and got her Communications degree at The University of Texas at Austin . While in college on summer break , McLeod got her first broadcasting job as a news intern at KPRC - NBC in Houston . She began acting at UCLA where she took acting and film history classes . McLeod began her career in Hollywood answering phones for movie / tv moguls Bernie Brillstein and Brad Grey of Brillstein - Grey Entertainment . Working for the talent managers of A - list actors and comedians helped land her her first sitcom part as a college - coed on Married With Children . After appearing in numerous national commercial spots and other sitcoms ( Nightstand , and Partners ) McLeod’s first real break came as the cheeky Hollywood correspondent of the irreverent and popular film review series , Moviewatch , which aired on Channel Four in the United Kingdom . McLeod spent two seasons as the sidekick to British TV personality and comedian , Johnny Vaughan ( The Big Breakfast , Passport To Paradise ) engaging in interviews with A - list film stars , reporting movie news from Los Angeles , and performing in comedy sketches satirizing the entertainment industry . In 2000 , McLeod 's demo reel caught the eye of a TLC network executive , during the casting for the first season of Trading Spaces . At the time she was appearing on the cable show IZ which aired late night and on the internet , the website formerly named IZ.com . After viewing a sketch entitled , Will Model for Food , where McLeod holds up a cardboard sign and begs New York subway commuters for food and money to help start a modeling career , TLC offered her the job as host of their flagship show , Trading Spaces . McLeod signed on for forty episodes . The show was a hit and McLeod shared in a daytime Emmy nomination with her Producers after one season on air in the Outstanding Special Class Series category . McLeod as host of Trading Spaces 2000 - 2001 on TLC . When she made the decision to leave the show in the summer of 2001 , McLeod told Newsweek she chose to “lay down her own paintbrush” and leave her Alex - cam and the demanding road schedule behind . After leaving " Trading Spaces " McLeod performed in back to back reality tv projects making the move into major network television with a hosting role on FOX 's controversial first season of Joe Millionaire shot on location in France 's Loire Valley . On the first Joe Millionaire , single women competed for the affection of a would - be millionaire who in reality was a not - so eligible bachelor and the 