Kimberly Alexis Bledel ( born September 16 , 1981 ) is an American actress and former fashion model . She is best known for her role in the television series Gilmore Girls and for the films Tuck Everlasting , Sin City , and The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants . She goes by her first name of " Kimberly " with family and friends , but is known professionally as Alexis Bledel . Bledel was born in Houston , Texas . Her father , Martin Bledel , is Argentinian and her mother , Nanette Blake , is Mexican . She has one younger brother , Eric , born 1986 . Her first language is Spanish , and she did not learn English until she began school . In fact , America Ferrera was surprised during an interview with a Spanish magazine when Alexis Bledel started speaking Spanish . Bledel 's mother encouraged her to try community theater when she was a child to overcome her shyness . She subsequently appeared in local productions of Our Town and The Wizard of Oz before being scouted at a local mall and given work as a fashion model . She attended St. Agnes Academy in Houston and was raised a Catholic . Bledel studied at the Page Parkes Center for Modeling and Acting and majored in film at New York University 's Tisch School of the Arts for one year before landing the role of Rory in Gilmore Girls . In 2002 , she was voted one of Teen People 's " 25 Hottest Stars Under 25 " . Bledel made her debut on TV on The WB series Gilmore Girls in 2000 . She played Lorelai Leigh " Rory " Gilmore , the daughter of single mother Lorelai Victoria Gilmore . Initially , Rory was a high school student living with her mother , but she has since moved on to college at Yale University , where she , among other things , has worked as the editor of the Yale Daily News . Bledel has said that she feels she can relate in some ways to Rory , both when it comes to some personal traits and her relationship to her own parents . She also sees the family structure and mother - daughter relationship on the show as something to which many people can relate . Bledel appeared as the main character in the video for Less Than Jake 's " She 's Gonna Break Soon " , lead single from their 2003 album Anthem . The single charted at number 39 on the UK charts . The role of Becky , a prostitute , in the movie Sin City was a shift from Bledel 's previous TV and film characters . She carries a gun and she kicks ass , " said Bledel of Becky . Despite her tough and precocious exterior , Becky gives the impression of being the young and insecure one among the women of Old Town , because of her young appearance and her close relationship to her mother , from whom she keeps her profession a secret . The movie is shot almost entirely in black - and - white , with splashes of color here and there , such as a red dress , blood or an entirely yellow evil character . In Becky 's case , it was her eyes that kept their color , as director Robert Rodriguez claimed that he found Bledel 's eyes to be " so amazing I had to keep them blue in the picture . Bledel 