Siddig El Tahir El Fadil El Siddig Abderahman Mohammed Ahmed Abdel Karim El Mahdi ( Arabic : صدّيق الطاهر الفاضل الصدّيق عبدالرحمن محمد أحمد عبدالكريم المهدي ) ( born 21 November , 1965 ) is a British actor , also known as Siddig El Fadil and Alexander Siddig . He is known for playing Dr Julian Bashir in the television series Star Trek : Deep Space Nine , and for his performance as Prince Nasir Al - Subaai in the film Syriana ( 2005 ) . He recently guest starred on 24 as Hamri Al - Assad . Siddig was born in Sudan , and spent most of his life in England . Born to an English mother and Sudanese father , Siddig describes himself as being a Muslim . His maternal uncle is English actor Malcolm McDowell , and his paternal uncle is the former Sudanese Prime Minister Sadiq al - Mahdi . He studied at St. Lawrence College , Ramsgate . He was credited under the shortened name Siddig El Fadil until October 1995 ( three seasons into his run on Star Trek : Deep Space Nine ) , when he changed his stage name to Alexander Siddig , as he thought it would be less confusing and easier to pronounce by American tongues . In 1997 , Siddig married his co - star Nana Visitor ; they had a son , Django El Tahir El Siddig , who was born in 1996 . Siddig and Visitor eventually divorced in 2001 . Since the end of the long - running Star Trek : Deep Space Nine , Siddig has made prominent appearances in films and television . Highlights include guest - starring as an Algerian secret agent on the trail of Islamic extremists in a controversial episode of the British television show Spooks , entitled " Nest of Angels " , in 2003 . In 2005 , he appeared as Saladin 's aide , Nasir , in Sir Ridley Scott 's film Kingdom of Heaven and gave a critically - lauded performance as Prince Nasir in Syriana , alongside George Clooney and Matt Damon . He played the title role in 2006 's Hannibal - Rome 's Worst Nightmare for the BBC ( UK ) . Early 2007 brought him back to American television in the role of former terrorist Hamri Al - Assad for the sixth season of 24 . Siddig 's roles have often called for him to act out many different accents : an English ' RP ' accent ( Star Trek : Deep Space Nine ) , a cockney accent ( Reign Of Fire ) , and an Algerian accent ( Spooks ) , among others . He has also given performances in Arabic as the role required ( Spooks , Syriana , 24 ) . 