Alex Rocco ( born Alexander Federico Petricone , Jr. on February 29 1936 ) is an American actor . His roles have ranged from comedy to playing gangsters in Mafia movies , the latter fitting in with his reported connections to mob organizations . Rocco was born in Somerville , Massachusetts to Mary and Alexander Petricone . Known by the nickname " Bobo " as a young man , Rocco had connections to the Winter Hill Gang in the early 1960s ( a mostly Irish gang , despite his Italian - American background ) . An incident in which George McLaughlin of a rival gang tried to pick up on Petricone 's girlfriend helped start the Irish Mob Wars of the early 1960s in Boston . Petricone was a suspect in the October 1961 murder of Bernie McLaughlin , but was never charged . He then moved to California , began using the name Alex Rocco , lost a considerable amount of weight , and got into Hollywood . Rocco played the part of Moe Greene , a Las Vegas casino owner , in the film The Godfather . Greene 's character represented the top Jewish mobster in the United States , going so far as to off - camera slap Michael 's brother , Fredo . Corleone then told Greene that he was going to buy him ( his casino ) out . Greene angrily tells the neophyte Michael that he buys Michael out , not vice versa . Michael , however , does not negotiate like his father did . Michael later dispenses of Greene through a hired assassin 's bullet through the eye . In The Godfather : Part II , the Jewish kingpin Hyman Roth reveals that Greene was a stand - in for Ben Siegel , as the man who invented Las Vegas . Hyman Roth betrays a knowledge that Michael arranged Greene 's death , and as such shows himself to be one of Michael 's true enemies . He also played a gangster in the film The Friends of Eddie Coyle about the Boston Irish Mob , a part very close to his own life . Other notable movies in which Rocco has appeared include The Wedding Planner , as Salvatore and appeared uncredited in Smokin ' Aces . He also played a small part in the Disney / Pixar film , A Bug 's Life as Thorny . He also has a recurring part in the long running animated series The Simpsons as the head of Itchy and Scratchy Studios , Roger Meyers , Jr . . In DVD commentaries , Rocco has expressed true gratitude to The Simpsons ' staff for allowing him his first voiceover role . He has , however , also taken a part on an episode of Family Guy , a series much resented by Simpsons ' writers . He is also known for having played Charlie Polniaczek , Jo 's father on The Facts of Life . From 1989 to 1990 , Rocco was a regular on the television comedy series The Famous Teddy Z in which he played " Al Floss " , a slick cheesy Hollywood talent agent and foil to Jon Cryer in the title role , an ex - mailroom clerk turned superagent . Rocco received an Emmy Award as Best Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series for this role . After moving to Los Angeles he became a member of the Bahá'í Faith . 