Alex Jennings ( born 10 May 1957 ) is an award - winning English actor best known for his appearance in The Queen ( 2006 ) in which he played the role of HRH The Prince of Wales . Jennings was born in Essex , and attended Abbs Cross Technical High School in Hornchurch and then studied English and Theatre studies at the University of Warwick , graduating in 1978 . He trained as an actor for two years at Bristol Old Vic Theatre School . He began his career in regional repertory theatre , playing a range of roles including Robespierre in The Scarlet Pimpernel . For his performance as Gloumov in Too Clever by Half at the Old Vic , he won the Olivier Award for Best Comedy Performance in 1988 . He was nominated in the same category the following year for portraying Dorante in The Liar . He has performed for the Royal National Theatre in a number of plays . His Royal Shakespeare Company roles include the title role in Peer Gynt , ( for which he won an Olivier Award 1995 / 6 for Best Actor ) , the title role in Richard II , Theseus / Oberon in A Midsummer Night 's Dream ( UK , American tour and Broadway ) , Angelo in Measure for Measure , Benedick in Much Ado About Nothing , and the title role in Hamlet . In 2002 he appeared in the Cameron Mackintosh / Trevor Nunn revival of My Fair Lady at Theatre Royal Drury Lane and won an Olivier Award as Best Actor in a Musical . His film appearances include War Requiem , the RSC 's film version of A Midsummer Night 's Dream , Lord Mark in the Oscar - nominated movie The Wings of the Dove , Joseph and his Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat , and The Four Feathers . His television appearances include Smiley 's People , The Franchise Affair , Inspector Morse , Alfonso Bonzo , the title role in Ashenden , Dead Poets Society , Inspector Alleyn , Hard Times , Bad Blood , and Peter Ackroyd 's London . His many radio credits include Casino Royale , The Way of the World and The Old Curiosity Shop . He has also narrated the book The Horse and His Boy by C.S. Lewis . He is currently filming The Cranford Chronicles . He was awarded an honorary degree ( an Honorary Doctor of Letters - Hon DLitt ) by the University of Warwick . 