Alexandra Tydings Luzzatto ( born Alexandra Huntingdon Tydings on December 15 , 1972 in Washington DC ) is an American actress , best known for her role as Aphrodite on Xena : Warrior Princess and Hercules : The Legendary Journeys . She first began her career at the age of 11 at the Royal Ballet 's production of Isadora at the Kennedy Center playing the role of a student . Her previous jobs besides acting include script reader , dog walker , receptionist at a dance studio , coordinator of a university 's women 's center , women 's peer counselor , model , waitress , punk clothing store sales person , video store clerk , demolition , and singer and bassist of bands Annabelle Kickbox and She 's Seen You Naked . She is a graduate of the private high school Sidwell Friends and Brown University with a degree in film and critical theory . She has four sisters and one brother . She is married to Ben Luzzatto . They have two daughters : Ruby ( born June 17 , 2004 ) and Emerson ( born June 4 , 2006 ) . As of 2006 she is living back in her home town of Washington , DC teaching Rock - and - Roll Yoga . She may have now left the acting business . A cancer patient kidnaps his doctor on a hunt for a cure . Alexandra plays Woody Harrelson 's worried wife . Video - The Titans try to supplant the gods . . . Aphrodite gets turned into a cow . 2.16 " For Him the Bell Tolls " - Aphrodite casts a spell on Joxer to turn him into a hero whenever a bell rings . 4.3 " Handicaps " - Charlie , in a string of bad - luck dates , tries to impress Kerry , who he finds out at the end of the date has two little boys . 3.10 " The Quill Is Mightier than the Sword " - Aphrodite makes everything that Gabrielle writes in her scroll come true . 3.18 " Fins , Femmes and Gems " - Aphrodite gives Xena , Gabrielle , and Joxer obsessions to keep them from messing up her plans to steal a diamond . 4.12 " If the Shoe Fits . . . " - Xena , Gabrielle , Aphrodite , and Joxer all try to help a little girl who 's run away from home , mostly by telling their own versions of Cinderella . 5.8 " Little Problems " - Aphrodite puts Xena 's soul into a little girl 's body . 5.11 " Punch Lines " - Aphrodite tries to help Gabrielle overcome her writer 's block . 5.15 " Married with Fishsticks " - In a Gabrielle dream - trip , " Jersey Girls " Aphrodite and Discord plot against Gabrielle ( all mermaids ) to win the hand of Joxer . 5.22 " Motherhood " - The Gods of Olympus , led by Athena attack Xena with the intent to slay her daughter , Eve . But thanks to the Archangel , Michael , Eve 's presence gives her the power to kill gods . Aphrodite is the only Olympian God spared in the end because of her friendship with Gabrielle . 6.12 " The God You Know " - Aphrodite has become a wacked - out pet of the Roman emperor Caligula . 6.13 " You Are There " - Aphrodite is one of the ones caught in the plot when a reporter chases Xena and 