Alexandrea Borstein ( born February 15 , 1973 ) is an American actress , voice actor , writer and comedian . Borstein was born in Chicago , Illinois to Judy and Irving Borstein , both of whom are mental health professionals . She was raised in a Jewish family with roots in Poland , Hungary , Russia and Mongolia , and moved to Southern California during the early 1980s . She later moved to San Francisco , where she attended San Francisco State University . She took a job at an ad agency where she wrote print ads for Barbie . Borstein started improv classes with the ACME Comedy Theater where she met both her writing partner and her future husband . She and her writing partner began to work on the animated series Casper . Shortly after , she left her ad job to become a full time writer . In 1996 , while still writing for Casper , Borstein worked on the popular TV show Power Rangers Zeo , where she provided the voice of Queen Machina , the queen of the Machine Empire . In 1997 , Borstein became a cast member on the sketch comedy show MADtv . Borstein joined the cast of MADtv during Season 3 as a featured player , but she was upgraded to repertory in mid - season . Borstein was perhaps best known for playing Miss Swan . Borstein also played a number of other characters until her departure from the show in 2002 . In addition to Miss Swan , Borstein played Eracist Anne , " Stick Chick " Echo , singer Jasmine Wayne - Wayne , child prodigy Karen Goddard , lounge singer Shaunda , News at Six 's outside - the - studio reporter Sue Napersville , and Cordo the GAP troll . When Seth Green made recurring appearances on the show to play mean boss Mr. Brightling , Borstein would play his mother Mama Brightling . Borstein also became known for impressions of Rosie O'Donnell , Björk , Chelsea Clinton , Jane Pauley , Janeane Garafalo , Monica Lewinski , Patsy Ramsey , Regis Philbin , and Vivian Vance ( as Ethel Mertz in parodies of I Love Lucy ) . During her time on MADtv , Borstein met Seth MacFarlane , who was launching a FOX animated sitcom , Family Guy . MacFarlane cast Borstein as the voice of Lois Griffin ; she provided several other voices as well . Family Guy was canceled from the FOX lineup in 2002 but returned in 2005 , and Borstein is still a part of the show , both as a voice performer and also as producer and staff writer . She has made at least three guest appearances on Drawn Together , once as Lois Griffin , her character on Family Guy . In an episode of Family Guy entitled " Do n't Make Me Over " , an animated version of Ms. Swan made a brief appearance and was voiced by her as well . In 2000 Borstein won the role of " Sookie St. James " in the WB show Gilmore Girls . She portrayed Sookie in the pilot , but her MADtv contract prevented her from continuing , and the producers recast her role with actress Melissa McCarthy . Borstein did make several recurring appearances as different characters : in Season 1 she appeared in several episodes as the harpist Drella , while she appeared in Seasons 3 and 5 as Miss Celine , a celebrity fashion advisor . Borstein 's film roles include the 