Alfred Bass ( born Abraham Basalinksy ; 8 April 1921 – 15 July 1987 ) was a diminutive cockney - accented English actor . Bass , who was Jewish , was born in Bethnal Green , London His name was originally Abraham Basalinsky . He started his acting career at Unity Theatre , London in the late 1930a , appearing in Plant In The Sun , and , and as the pantomime King in Babes In The Wood . During the 1950s he continued to direct shows at Unity , and on one occassion appeared in court ( along with Vida Hope ) charged with putting on a play without a license . Among his most often seen films ( by modern audiences ) , are The Lavender Hill Mob and A Tale of Two Cities . He also starred in Roman Polanski 's horror sex romp The Fearless Vampire Killers as the character Yoine Shagal , the innkeeper . Initially , he seeks to protect his beautiful daughter Sarah , portrayed by Sharon Tate , from the local vampire lord . However , the vampire lord prevails , turning Shagal and his daughter into vampires . When a maid tries to scare him off with a crucifix , he is unaffected since he is a Jew ( thus becoming perhaps the first Jewish vampire in the movies ) . His character spends the rest of the movie dealing with his vampirism , spouting off funny one - liners and seeking to fulfill his sexual cravings . One of his little - seen film appearances is the Pride segment of The Magnificent Seven Deadly Sins . He continued working until the turn of the 1980s and had roles in the TV series Till Death Us Do Part , Minder , and Are You Being Served ? . He sometimes emphasised his Jewish background in the accent he used on screen . He also guest starred in two episodes of the British comedy television The Goodies , in which he appeared as the " Town Planner " in " Camelot " , and as the " Giant " in " The Goodies and the Beanstalk " . He starred in The Army Game a British TV comedy series of the late 1950s and early 1960s , and then co - starred in its sequel Bootsie and Snudge as a tramp with Bill Fraser and Clive Dunn . Both series were very popular in Britain . He also had success on the stage , in particular with The Bespoke Overcoat which was filmed in 1956 . He successfully took over from Topol in the lead role in Fiddler on the Roof on the West End stage . He also appeared in the 1950s Landmark BBC Radio SF Series Journey Into Space as Lemuel " Lemmy " Barnet . He died of a heart attack in 1987 . The most successful and internationally distributed movie in which he appeared was the 1966 release of Alfie starring Michael Caine and Shelley Winters . He played Harry Clamacraft . 