Alfonso Lincoln Ribeiro ( born September 21 , 1971 in New York City ) is an American actor , singer , and dancer of Dominican descent . His parents emigrated to New York from the Dominican Republic . He is best known for his role as Carlton Banks on the TV sitcom The Fresh Prince of Bel - Air . Ribeiro began his acting career in the drama Oye Willie at the age of eight . By the time he was ten , he had released such songs as : " Dance Baby " , " Not Too Young " , & " Sneak Away with Me. " His first brush with true stardom came in 1983 , when he originated the title role of the Broadway musical The Tap Dance Kid , receiving rave reviews for his performance . He also appeared in one of Michael Jackson 's Pepsi commercials as a dancer in 1984 . The same year , Ribeiro was cast as Rick Schroder 's best friend on the TV series Silver Spoons . He also sang in a commercial for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter - day Saints . Ribeiro is best known for his role as spoiled rich - kid Carlton Banks in The Fresh Prince of Bel - Air from 1990 to 1996 , in which he was mercilessly teased by Will Smith 's lead character , often targeting his height . He also was the director of some episodes of Fresh Prince . The Carlton character was often called upon to do a comic , usually improvised dance routine to Tom Jones 's " It 's Not Unusual. " . Ribeiro is in fact a very good dancer ; he showed some skills with Will Smith in several episodes of The Fresh Prince of Bel - Air , including a tap dance routine in the show 's Soul Train episode that featured a moonwalk . Cameo in the Wild Wild West music video . He is also known for his role on LL Cool J 's show In the House and as the host of Your Big Break . Ribeiro has acted and been part of the crew on many movies and TV shows . In 1997 , he performed the voice of Roland Jackson in Extreme Ghostbusters . He has also appeared in Smith 's " Wild Wild West " video in 1999 , and in a McDonald 's commercial in 2003 . Beginning in August 2006 , Ribeiro was a contestant on Fox 's new reality show Celebrity Duets which teamed up entertainers not known for singing with famous singers . Ribeiro promised to do " the Carlton Dance " if he made it to the show 's finale . He kept his promise when he became one of the three finalists . On September 29 , 2006 , Ribeiro was announced as the winner of the show . Lucy Lawless and Hal Sparks finished second and third , respectively . For his victory , Ribeiro 's charity of choice , Fresh Start , which provides plastic surgery to children with birth defects , received $100,000 . Ribeiro currently lives in Los Angeles . He is a two - time winner of the Toyota Pro / Celebrity Race ( in 1994 and 1995 ) .Ribeiro now directs episodes of his former castmate 's brain child All of Us . Lists of miscellaneous information should be avoided . Please relocate any relevant information into appropriate sections or articles . Ribeiro guest - starred in Hi - Jinks . He is 