Alfred Molina ( born May 24 , 1953 ) is an English actor of both the stage and screen . Molina is known for his portrayal of Spider - Man villain Otto Octavius in Spider - Man 2 as well as playing key roles in Chocolat and The Da Vinci Code . Molina was born in London . His father was Spanish from Madrid who worked as a waiter and a chauffeur , while his mother was Italian who worked as a cook and a housekeeper . Molina grew up in a " working - class neighborhood " in Notting Hill that was inhabited by many other immigrant families . He wanted to become an actor after seing Spartacus at the age of nine , and attended the Guildhall School of Music and Drama . Molina made his film debut in the 1981 movie Raiders of the Lost Ark , but his big break came with Letter to Brezhnev in 1985 , which he followed up with a starring role in Prick Up Your Ears in 1987 , playing Joe Orton 's lover Kenneth Halliwell . Other films include Species , Maverick , Dudley Do - Right , Chocolat , Not Without My Daughter , and Enchanted April . He has worked twice with Paul Thomas Anderson , first in Boogie Nights and then Magnolia . In 2002 , Molina portrayed the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera alongside Salma Hayek in Frida . Many critics declared that his portrayal of Rahad Jackson in Boogie Nights was deserving of an Oscar . Molina 's acting talents have also been enjoyed by theatregoers worldwide . His stage work includes two major Royal National Theatre productions , Tennessee Williams ' " The Night of the Iguana " ( as Shannon ) and David Mamet 's " Speed the Plow " ( as Fox ) , plus a performance in Yasmina Reza 's " Art " ( his Broadway debut ) , for which he received a Tony Award nomination in 1998 . Although he did not win , " Art " won the Tony for Best Play . Currently ( as of April 2007 ) , Molina stars in the Off - Broadway production of Patrick Marber 's " Howard Katz " . In 2004 , Molina returned to the stage , starring as Tevye in the Broadway version of Fiddler on the Roof , for which he received a Tony Award nomination for Best Actor in a Musical . The same year , he had a secondary role in the ecuadorian / mexican production Crónicas , which had John Leguizamo in the starring role . Recent high - profile movie roles include villains Doctor Octopus , in the 2004 Spider - Man sequel , Spider - Man 2 , and Bishop Manuel Aringarosa in the 2006 adaptation of Dan Brown 's The Da Vinci Code . Molina has been married to actress Jill Gascoine since 1985 . He has a daughter Rachel ( born 1980 ) from a previous relationship , and two step sons , from Jills first marriage . He is also a grandfather to Alfie ( born Nov 2003 ) and Layla ( born May 2006 ) . 