Alice Ghostley ( born August 14 , 1926 in Vernon County , Missouri ) , is a Tony Award - winning American actress , best known for playing the characters Bernice Clifton on Designing Women ( Emmy Nomination , Best Supporting Actress ; 1992 ) , Esmerelda on Bewitched , and Cousin Alice on Mayberry R.F.D. . A veteran of early television , Ghostley appeared as one of the ugly step - sisters in the landmark 1957 musical television production of Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein 's Cinderella , which starred Julie Andrews in the title role . Ghostley 's character , Joy , was paired with Kaye Ballard as the other stepsister , Portia . Since then she has portrayed several well - known recurring characters on situation comedies , beginning with Esmerelda , a shy witch who served as a maid and babysitter to the Stephens household beginning in season six of Bewitched . The character appeared in fifteen episodes , and is best known for her invisibility and for sneezes that produced unexpected magical effects . Ghostley had previously guest starred once as another character , Naomi , on the show 's second season . During this period she also joined the cast of Mayberry R.F.D. , playing Cousin Alice after Frances Bavier 's character Aunt Bee was written out of the series . Between 1986 and 1993 , Ghostley portrayed Bernice Clifton on Designing Women , a kind but ditzy friend and client to the Sugarbakers . She later played Irna Wallingsford in six episodes of Evening Shade . Among many other guest starring roles , she appeared as the crazed mother of Stanley Zbornak on The Golden Girls . Ghostley first came to Broadway in Leonard Sillman 's New Faces of 1952 . She appeared in in the 1960 revue A Thurber Carnival and in The Beauty Part ( 1962 ) , playing several distinct roles in each . She also performed in several musical comedies , including Shangri - La ( 1956 ) . Ghostley won the 1965 Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Play for her role as Mavis Parodus Bryson in The Sign in Sidney Brustein 's Window . Among her few forays into motion pictures , Ghostley found herself in a supporting role in the classic To Kill a Mockingbird ( 1962 ) , playing Dill 's Aunt Stephanie Crawford . She also appeared in the hit movie version of Grease where she played shop teacher Mrs. Murdock . Ghostley had a small role in 1967 's The Graduate in a scene with Marion Lorne . Ghostley 's character in Bewitched was essentially created to replace Lorne 's character , Aunt Clara , when the latter actress died in 1968 . Ghostley was married to Felice Orlandi , an actor , from 1953 until his death from lung cancer on May 21 , 2003 . This Missouri - related article is a stub . 