Alicia Coppola ( born April 12 , 1968 ) is an American television actress . She was born in Huntington , New York . She started her TV career as a hostess on the MTV game show Remote Control . In 1991 , she was hired to play vixen Lorna Devon on the soap opera Another World ; she played the role until 1994 . Her better - known TV jobs include a recurring role on Trinity ( 1998 - 1999 ) , a starring role on the American remake of the British comedy Cold Feet ( 1999 ) , and top billing on the TNT drama Bull ( 2000 ) . She appeared briefly as Lt. Stadi in the pilot episode of Star Trek : Voyager , played a murderer on CSI : Crime Scene Investigation , and appeared serval times as a military lawyer on JAG and its spin - off , NCIS . Coppola also took on the unusual role of a female serial killer agreeing to help catch her copycat in the 2005 episode of Crossing Jordan , " Road Kill. " . Coppola also had a role as a Muslim intelligence analyst working for the Los Angeles branch of the Counter - Terrorist Unit ( CTU ) in a single episode ( 1 AM - 2 AM ) during Day 4 of 24 , named Azara . All four of her scenes were cut from the broadcast version of the episode , but are restored as extras on the Day 4 DVD . In them , she discovers a lead in the investigation which is originally dismissed by fellow analyst Edgar Stiles , who suspects her because of her religion . Edgar later apologizes to her when her lead turns out to be important . Starting in the fall of 2006 , she appeared in the recurring role of IRS Agent Mimi Clark in the post - apocalyptic drama , Jericho . She became a series regular in February , 2007 . Alicia Coppola is not related either to film director Francis Ford Coppola or his daughter , Sofia Coppola . She is the sister of Matthew Coppola and cousin of Denise Di Novi , both film producers . Coppola is married to Anthony " Tony " Jones , and their daughter , Mila Rose Jones , was born in late 2002 . She earned a Bachelors degree from New York University in 1990 . 