Alicia Silverstone , ( born October 4 , 1976 ) is an American actress and former fashion model . She first came to widespread attention in music videos for Aerosmith and later starred in Hollywood films such as Clueless and Batman & Robin . Alicia Silverstone was born in San Francisco , California , to Monty Silverstone , a real - estate investor , and Didi Radford , a former flight attendant . Silverstone 's father is English - born and her mother is Scottish . Her father , a native of East London , is Jewish and her mother converted to Judaism upon marrying Silverstone 's father . She attended San Mateo High School but did not complete her high school studies . Silverstone is the youngest of three children and also has a half - sister , London rock singer Kezi Silverstone , and a half - brother , David Silverstone , both from her father 's previous marriage . Silverstone visited England during the summer during her childhood . When she was six , she began modeling and was subsequently cast in television commercials , the first being for Domino 's Pizza . She acquired some early modeling and advertising work and was eventually cast as the ' dream girl ' on American TV series The Wonder Years . Silverstone won a leading part in the 1993 film The Crush , playing a girl who sets out to ruin an older man after her teenage crush is spurned ; she won two awards at the 1994 MTV Movie Awards for the role for Best Breakthrough Performance and Best Villian . Silverstone became legally emancipated at the age of fifteen in order to work the hours required for the shooting schedule of the film . After seeing her in The Crush , Marty Callner decided she'd be perfect for a role in a music video he was direction for the band Aerosmith , called " Cryin " , and then the following two videos " Crazy " and " Amazing " . These were hugely successful both for the band and Silverstone , making her a household name ( and also gaining her the nickname , " the Aerosmith chick " ) . They also got her noticed by film maker Amy Heckerling , who after seeing them decided to cast her in Clueless . Clueless , became a sleeper hit and critical darling during the summer of 1995 . Silverstone 's performance was well received , and she was branded the spokeswoman for an emerging young generation . As a result , she signed a deal with Columbia - TriStar worth $10 million . As part of the package , she got a three - year first - look deal for her own production company , First Kiss Productions . Silverstone also won " Best Female Performance " and " Most Desirable Female " by the MTV Movie Awards in 1996 for her performance in the film . Silverstone 's next role was as Batgirl in Batman & Robin , which was neither a critical nor a financial success . She also starred in 1997 's dark comedy Excess Baggage , which was the first movie to be released by First Kiss Productions . In the film , Silverstone played a chain smoking , underage drinking , rich brat who fakes her own kidnapping in order to get her father 's attention . The film was not as critically or commercially embraced as Clueless After just one film , Columbia - TriStar let their production deal with 