Alicia Roanne Witt ( born August 21 , 1975 ) is an American film , stage and television actress . Witt was born in Worcester , Massachusetts to Diane and Robert Witt . She has a brother , Ian . Witt was discovered by David Lynch when she appeared on the television show That 's Incredible ! in 1980 ; she had recited Shakespeare 's Romeo and Juliet . He cast her in the movie Dune ( 1984 ) , where she played Paul Atreides ' young sister Alia Atreides . Afterwards , she left Hollywood to concentrate on her studies and music . She was home taught by her parents . She studied piano at Boston University and won several national and international classical piano competitions , including the " Bartok - Kabalevsky International Piano Competition " . At age fourteen , Witt earned her high school diploma . Shortly thereafter , she moved to Hollywood with her mother ( who was noted from 1988 - 93 in the Guinness Book of Records for the world 's longest hair ; it is not known for sure if Diane still has her record breaking hair ) to pursue a career as a full - time actress . Soon , David Lynch , whom she refers to as a mentor , created the role of Gersten Hayward especially for her in his successful series Twin Peaks . He cast her again in Blackout , a segment in his short - lived HBO series Hotel Room . That was the last collaboration between the two for awhile . During this time , Witt supported herself by playing piano at the Regent Beverly Wilshire Hotel . She went on to play small parts in Mike Figgis ' Liebestraum ( in which her brother Ian also appears ) , the Gen - X drama Bodies , Rest & Motion and the TV movie The Disappearance of Vonnie . In 1994 , Witt landed her first lead role in a film , playing a disturbed teenager named Bonnie in Fun . She received the Special Jury Recognition Award at the Sundance Festival and was nominated for Best Actress at the Independent Spirit Awards . This performance made Madonna want Witt to be cast as her witch - lover in the first segment The missing ingredient of Four Rooms . Witt was introduced to a larger audience playing the role of Zoey Woodbine , daughter of actress Cybill Shepherd 's character in the sitcom Cybill from 1995 to 1998 . Between seasons she starred in films : Mr. Holland 's Opus , Alexander Payne 's abortion comedy Citizen Ruth , Passion 's Way and Bongwater . After Cybill was cancelled , Witt received a leading role in the Scream - ish campus - horror Urban Legend and the animated feature Gen¹³ which was never released because the studio stopped funding before the completion of the movie . In 2000 , Witt had starring roles on the television shows Ally McBeal and The Sopranos ; the lead role in the comedy Playing Mona Lisa , an instant - classic turn as an anal porn star in John Waters ' Cecil B. Demented , and her stage debut in Robbie Fox 's musical The Gift at the now - closed Tiffany Theater in Los Angeles , in which she played a high - priced stripper with a disease . In the years following , Witt 's acting career slowed down . She had a small part in Cameron Crowe 's Vanilla Sky , which was intended as a 