Alison Margaret Arngrim ( born January 18 , 1962 in New York , New York , USA ) is an American actress and stand up comedian . She is best known as a former child star playing the role " Nellie Oleson , " from the NBC television series Little House on the Prairie . She appeared in guest roles on television series like Love Boat and Fantasy Island . She was also a frequently panelist on the short - lived NBC game show Match Game / Hollywood Squares Hour . She currently does charity work in addition to performance . She focuses on AIDS issues and on child abuse , speaking frequently for and lobbying with the group PROTECT . In 2004 , she came out as an incest survivor on Larry King Live . Although she refused to name her attacker , she clarified that it was neither of her parents . Alison 's father , Thor Arngrim , was a well - known Hollywood manager . Her mother , Norma MacMillan , was a well - known voice actress , who provided the voices for characters on Casper the Friendly Ghost , Gumby , Davey and Goliath , and many other beloved animated programs . Her brother Stefan Arngrim was also a child actor . Alison married Robert Paul Schoonover , a musician on November 6 , 1993 . They live in Los Angeles . Alison tied with Danielle Spencer ( ' Dee ' on What 's Happening ! ! ) for " Character Most in Need of a Time - out " award on the 2006 TV Land Awards for her role on Little House on The Prairie . In one of her stand - up routines , she described playing Nellie on Little House on The Prairie as " Like having PMS for seven years. " . On May 26 , 2007 she made an appearance at the Garden Grove Strawberry Festival signing autographs . Originally auditioned for the role of Laura Ingalls , and later Mary Ingalls , on Little House on The Prairie , but eventually won the role of Nellie Oleson . Alison Arngrim regularly keeps in contact with her friend Melissa Gilbert , who played her nemesis " Laura Ingalls " on Little House on the Prairie . Brother Stefan Arngrim is also an actor . 