Alla Nazimova ( Russian : Алла Назимова ) , born Mariam Edez Adelaida Leventon ( Мириам Эдес Аделаида Левентон ; May 22 1879 – July 14 1945 ) was a Russian / American theater and film actress , scriptwriter , and producer . She is often known as just Nazimova , and was also known as Alia Nasimoff . Nazimova was one of three children of Yakov Leventon and Sonya Horowitz . The family was Jewish and lived in Yalta , Crimea , then part of the Russian Empire ( part of Ukraine since 1954 ) . She grew up in a dysfunctional family and , after her parents ' separation , was shuffled between boarding schools , foster homes , and relatives . Her emotional distress caused her to rebel against authority as a way of gaining attention . A precocious child , she was playing the violin by age seven . As a teenager she began to pursue an interest in the theatre and took acting lessons at the Moscow - based Academy of Acting before joining Stanislavsky 's Moscow Art Theater as " Alla Nazimova , " and later just " Nazimova. " . Her stage name was taken from her middle name Adelaida , combined with the surname of Nadezhda Nazimova ( the heroine of the Russian novel Children of the Streets ) , whom she admired . She married Sergei Golovin , a fellow actor , in 1899 ; the marriage was " in name only , " and the two never legally divorced . Nazimova 's theater career blossomed early and by 1903 she was a major star in Moscow and Saint Petersburg . She toured Europe , including London and Berlin , with her boyfriend Pavel Orlenev , a flamboyant actor and producer . In 1905 , they moved to New York City and founded a Russian language theater on the Lower East Side . The venture was unsuccessful and Orlenev returned to Russia while Nazimova stayed in New York . She was signed up by the American producer Henry Miller and made her Broadway debut in 1906 to critical and popular success . She quickly became extremely popular ( a theater was named after her ) and remained a major Broadway star for years , often acting in the plays of Henrik Ibsen and Anton Chekhov . Nazimova made her silent film debut in 1916 , due to her notoriety in a 35 - minute 1915 play entitled War Brides . This brought her to the attention of Lewis J. Selznick . Over the next few years , she made a number of highly successful films that earned her a considerable amount of money . By 1917 , she was earning as much as $30,000 per film , with a $1,000 per day bonus for every day of filming . She was also given a $13,000 per week contract . At the time , actress Mary Pickford was on a $3,000 per week contract . In 1918 , at age 39 , Nazimova felt confident enough in her abilities that she began producing and writing films in which she also starred . In her film adaptations of works by such notable writers as Oscar Wilde and Ibsen , she developed her own filmmaking techniques , which were considered daring at the time . Her projects , including A Doll 's House ( 1922 ) based on Ibsen , and Salomé ( 1923 ) based on Wilde , met with little popular success and lost a great deal of money . By 1925 