Allison Jenna Mack ( born July 29 , 1982 , in Preetz , Germany ) is an American film and television actress . Mack currently stars as Chloe Sullivan on the WB\CW series Smallville . She and co - star Kristin Kreuk have become close friends . Mack was born in Germany to American parents , Mindy and Jonathan Mack . Her father was an opera singer performing there . The Mack family moved back to the United States when Allison was two years old . She began her acting career at the age of four in commercials for " German Chocolate. " . Mack then went into modeling for a short period because her mother thought she " looked cute in clothes. " . She began studying at The Young Actors Space in Los Angeles when she was seven . Her first major TV role came in an episode of the WB series 7th Heaven , in which she gained a lot of attention playing a teenager who cut herself . In 2000 , she starred in two short - lived series , Hiller and Diller and Opposite Sex . She also starred beside Sam Jones III in an R. L. Stine miniseries The Nightmare Room . Her filmography includes Eric Stoltz 's directorial debut My Horrible Year ! , in which she plays a girl having great difficulties in her life as she turns sixteen , and Camp Nowhere . In the summer of 2006 , Mack 's voice was heard as the sister of the main character in the Warner Bros. CGI movie The Ant Bully . That year she also provided the voice of a museum curator named Clea in an episode of The Batman ( who bore a deliberate resemblance to Mack ) . Lists of miscellaneous information should be avoided . Please relocate any relevant information into appropriate sections or articles . Allison won the Teen Choice Award for Best Sidekick in a TV Series ( Smallville ) , making her the only cast member besides the star of the show , Tom Welling , to win a TCA . Allison once did a toothpaste commercial with Draft Beer Man . The commercial only ran for two months in the Minneapolis area before being pulled . Allison was listed # 22 among the 50 Sexiest Women in the Femme Fatales magazine in its January - February 2005 edition . Allison has a German Shepherd / Malamute puppy named " Phantom. " . Allison is great friends with Smallville co - star Kristin Kreuk . They say they go on shopping trips on weekends and are constantly spotted together . 