Allison Brooks Janney ( born November 19 , 1959 ) is an Emmy - winning American actress , known for her portrayal of President Josiah Bartlet 's ( played by Martin Sheen ) press secretary and Chief of Staff , C.J. Cregg on the American television series The West Wing . Janney was born in Dayton , Ohio to Macy ( nee Putnam ) , a former actress and homemaker , and Jervis Spenser Janney , Jr. , a jazz musician turned real estate agent . She has an older brother , Jay , and a younger brother , Hal . Her great - uncle , Stuart Janney , owned many racehorses , including the famous Ruffian , considered by many to be the greatest female racehorse of all time . Janney aspired to be an Olympic skater , but after a freak accident in which she clashed with a closed glass door , she decided on a change of career . She attended The Miami Valley School in Dayton , where she was named a distinguished alum in 2004 and the Hotchkiss School in Connecticut . She then attended Kenyon College , where she was first discovered by Joanne Woodward and director Paul Newman . She went on to study drama at the Neighborhood Playhouse in New York and the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London . She attended The Neighborhood Playhouse the same years as actor Dylan McDermott . While struggling to make it as an actress , she told people who inquired about what she did for a living that she was a photographer for National Geographic . Years ago , one casting agent told me that the only roles I could play were lesbians and aliens . Janney 's first roles on television were as comedic foils on soap operas : she first played Vi Kaminski for a short time on As the World Turns , following up with a two - year stint as one of the Spaulding maids , Ginger on Guiding Light . In the spring of 1994 , she appeared in the season finale of Law & Order , as a reluctant witness against a member of the Russian mob . This episode was also notable as Michael Moriarty 's final episode in the series . His on - screen resignation at the episode 's end came in part as a result of his having to coerce testimony from Janney 's character , with fatal consequences for her . In 2006 , Janney had carried notable roles in the movies , Margaret and Over the Hedge , an animated comedy . Also , she took the role of Prudence Pingleton in the 2007 film Hairspray . In 1999 , she was cast in the role of presidential press secretary C.J. Cregg on the television drama The West Wing , for which she has won four Emmy Awards . Two of the Emmys were for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress - Drama Series in 2000 and 2001 , and two were for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress - Drama Series in the years 2002 and 2004 . She was also nominated in 2003 and 2006 for the Best Actress . She is one of six cast members from The West Wing to have won an Emmy for their work , the others being Richard Schiff , Bradley Whitford , John Spencer , Stockard Channing and Alan Alda - however , Janney is the only one who has won more than once . Janney was honorably nominated , in 