Alexandra Elizabeth " Ally " Sheedy ( born June 13 , 1962 ) is an American screen and stage actress , possibly best known for her roles in the " Brat Pack " films The Breakfast Club and St. Elmo 's Fire . Sheedy was born in New York City to John Sheedy , a Manhattan - based advertising executive , and Charlotte Baum , a notable press agent who was involved in women 's and civil rights movements . Sheedy 's father was Catholic and her mother was Jewish ; she was raised mostly Catholic , although she has since also identified as both Buddhist and Jewish . Her parents divorced in 1971 and Sheedy 's mother came out as a lesbian in 1980 . She has two siblings , Patrick and Meghan . She attended Columbia Grammar and Preparatory School in New York City , graduating in 1980 . Sheedy started dancing with the American Ballet Theatre at the age of six , and was planning on making it a full - time career . But when puberty hit and she started developing breasts , as well as an eating disorder , she then switched her focus entirely to acting for good . At twelve years old , she wrote a children 's book , She Was Nice to Mice ; the book was published by McGraw - Hill and became a best - seller . In 1975 , her mother brought suit against the owners of Zabar 's delicatessen for failing to protect her from an attempted sexual assault . Sheedy started acting in local stage productions while in her teenage years . After appearing in several made - for - television films in 1981 , as well as three episodes of the television series Hill Street Blues , she made her feature film debut in Bad Boys ( 1983 ) , starring Sean Penn . The 1980s were her most active period , with roles in popular teen films such as WarGames , The Breakfast Club , St. Elmo 's Fire , Short Circuit , and Maid to Order . Throughout most of the 1990s , Sheedy appeared in many television films . 1998 's High Art , a well - reviewed independent film about a romance between two women , was an important film in her career . She identified with the character of photographer " Lucy Berliner " so much that she took a plane at her own expense to participate in an audition and has said that this character is the closest one she has played to herself . In 1999 , Sheedy took over the lead role in the off - Broadway production of Hedwig and the Angry Inch . She was the first female to play the part of the German transsexual " Hedwig " . Her run was terminated early amid bad reviews . She was reunited with Breakfast Club co - star Anthony Michael Hall when she became a special guest star on his television show The Dead Zone , in the second - season episode " Playing God " ( 2003 ) where Johnny ( Anthony Michael Hall ) is reunited with two close friends from high school , one of whom is awaiting a heart transplant and the other ( Ally Sheedy ) is the donor . Sheedy has also acted in an episode of C.S.I . In the 1990s , Sheedy was treated for sleeping pill addiction , an experience on which she drew for her role as a drug - addicted photographer in High Art 