Amanda Laura Bynes ( born April 3 , 1986 ) is an American actress , former show host on Nickelodeon , and fashion designer . After appearing in several successful television series on Nickelodeon in the late 1990s and early 2000s , Bynes has moved into a film career , starring in several films aimed at teenage audiences , including her latest , She 's the Man , and her upcoming role in the film version of the musical Hairspray . She was on the 2007 Forbes list as the 5th highest paid celebrity under 21 earning $2.5 million . Bynes has been described by The Boston Globe as having an " Everygirl " appeal , embodying " both everything her teen fans dream of being and everything they know they really are , and they love her for it. " . In 2006 , she was named one of Teen People 's " 25 Hottest Stars Under 25 " . Bynes was born in Thousand Oaks , California to Rick Bynes , a dentist who also practiced stand - up comedy , and Lynn Organ , a dental assistant . She has two older siblings , Tommy , a chiropractor , and Jillian , who has a B.A. in history from UCLA . Bynes ' father is Catholic and her mother is Jewish , and Bynes has referred to herself as Jewish . Bynes was trained as an actress by Arsenio Hall and Richard Pryor at a comedy camp , and began professionally acting at the age of seven , appearing in a television advertisement for Buncha Crunch candies . During her childhood , she also appeared on stage in versions of Annie , The Secret Garden , The Music Man and The Sound of Music . After taking acting classes , Bynes became a regular cast member of Nickelodeon 's Figure It Out and All That ( both in 1996 ) and later became the star of The Amanda Show , also on Nickelodeon . The Amanda Show features a combination of comical skits and sketches , including Amanda Bynes playing Judge Trudy , a judge that always rules in kids ' favor , and Penelope Taynt , an Amanda - obsessed fan . Bynes made her film debut in 2002 's mild box office success , Big Fat Liar , where she played opposite Frankie Muniz . Her first solo leading role was in 2003 's What a Girl Wants , with co - star Oliver James . Subsequently , Bynes starred in the WB Network 's sitcom What I Like About You and had voice parts in 2003 's Charlotte 's Web 2 : Wilbur 's Great Adventure and 2005 's CGI animated comedy , Robots . She also co - starred in an episode of The Nightmare Room as Danielle Warner , and in Arliss as Crystal Dupree . Bynes appeared on the cover of Vanity Fair 's July 2003 edition with nine of Hollywood 's most popular female young stars , including Lindsay Lohan , Hilary Duff , Alexis Bledel , Raven - Symoné , Evan Rachel Wood , the Olsen Twins , and Mandy Moore . Although she is often compared with them , Bynes has commented that " It 's like being the hot girl at the high school party . I was never that girl . I grew up with terrible acne and feeling insecure . I was tall and skinny . I did n't feel pretty at all , and guys did n't even like me . That 's why 