Amanda Seyfried ( born December 3 , 1985 ) is an American actress and former child model . She is known for her roles in Mean Girls , Alpha Dog , Veronica Mars and Big Love . Seyfried was born in Allentown , in the Lehigh Valley region of Pennsylvania . She is a 2003 graduate of Allentown 's William Allen High School and is currently a student at New York City 's Fordham University . As a teenager , she appeared on the cover of three Francine Pascal books . Seyfried started her career as an actress in soap operas . In 2000 , she was the first actress to play the role of Lucy Montgomery on CBS 's As the World Turns . She went on , from 2002 to 2003 , to play the role of Joni Stafford on ABC 's All My Children . In 2004 , Seyfried achieved a breakthrough when she was cast as the most dimwitted of the " Plastics " , Karen Smith , in the popular teen film Mean Girls alongside Lindsay Lohan , Rachel McAdams and Lacey Chabert . The film grossed over $86 million in the United States . In Mean Girls , she initially auditioned for the role of Regina . She became the original casting choices for both the roles of " Regina George " and " Cady " . She was then cast as the sidekick to " Regina " , " Karen Smith " . The other roles later went to McAdams and Lohan , respectively . In 2005 , she played the lead character in one of the nine parts in the movie Nine Lives . Continuing her television career , Seyfried was cast in UPN 's Veronica Mars as the title character 's murdered best friend Lilly Kane . In her role as Lilly , she appeared on the show through a series of flashbacks , dreams and visions , which portrayed her as a wild , stylish , and bubbly teenage daughter of a business executive . Lilly is sometimes compared to the character of Laura Palmer of Twin Peaks , who also was deceased and appeared through various flashbacks as the plot unfolded . While appearing often during Mars ' first season , she also appeared briefly in season 2 's premiere and finale . Seyfried originally auditioned for the title role on Veronica Mars , but lost the place to Kristen Bell and ended up winning the role of Lilly Kane . Seyfried has had primetime cameo appearances and minor guest roles on Fox 's House , Justice , NBC 's Law & Order : Special Victims Unit and CBS 's CSI : Crime Scene Investigation and currently appears as Rebecca on ABC Family 's television series Wildfire . Seyfried is also a main character , Sarah Henrickson , in the highly - touted HBO original series Big Love . She appeared in the 2007 film Alpha Dog and played a supporting role in the film Solstice in 2007 . Amanda will play the role of ' Sophie ' alongside Meryl Streep and Pierce Brosnan in the film version of the musical " Mamma Mia ! " , due for release in 2008 . 