Amanda Blake ( February 20 1929 - August 16 1989 ) , was an American actress best known for the role of the red - haired " Miss Kitty " on the longest - running television drama , CBS 's Gunsmoke series ( 1955 - 1975 ) . Born Beverly Louise Neill in Buffalo , New York , she was a telephone operator before taking up acting . Nicknamed " The Young Greer Garson , " she became best known for her 19 - year stint as the fictitious " Kitty Russell " . Miss Kitty was owner - operator of the Long Branch Saloon , from which she dispensed wisdom , whiskey , ( and though not overtly ) boarding room keys and " fancy " women . Like Perry Mason and his secretary Della Street , Kitty and Dodge City 's U.S. Marshal , Matt Dillon ( played by James Arness ) seemingly carried on a cloaked relationship . Blake 's Kitty presumably departed Dodge City at the close of the series ' 19th season , sans an on - screen farewell . Character actress Fran Ryan ( Hanna ) assumed ownership of the Long Branch for the twentieth and final season , with little mentioned of Kitty . In the first of three CBS post - series movies ( " Gunsmoke : Return to Dodge " ) , Kitty tells Hanna ( Ryan ) that she left Dodge to return to New Orleans , as she was no longer willing to watch Matt cheat death another time ( Actually , a flashback was created by cleverly editing / integrating footage from a 1970 episode where Kitty left Matt / Dodge but returned by the epilogue ) . In real life Blake left in 1974 as she wanted more free time , and missed her friend / costar Glenn Strange who played Kitty 's barkeeper Sam . Gunsmoke continued for one more year before CBS cancelled it after its 20th season , much to the surprise of the entire cast , including Arness . In 1968 , Blake was inducted into the Hall of Great Western Performers at the National Cowboy & Western Heritage Museum in Oklahoma City . This was six years before the legendary John Wayne was inducted in 1974 and more than a decade before co - stars Arness , Ken Curtis , Dennis Weaver , and Milburn Stone were inducted in 1981 . Blake was the third performer welcomed into the Hall , after Tom Mix and Gary Cooper , who were inducted in 1958 and 1966 respectively . Because of her continuing role on Gunsmoke , Blake did not appear in many films . She did once manage to find time to appear in a comedy routine with the legendary CBS entertainer Red Skelton She was also a panelist on the long - running Hollywood Squares and " Match Game ' 74 " . After Gunsmoke , Blake went into semi - retirement at her home in Phoenix , Arizona , taking on only a few film and TV projects . A lover of animals , she joined with others to form the Arizona Animal Welfare League in 1971 , today the oldest and largest " no - kill " animal shelter in the state . In 1980 , Blake was diagnosed with a form of mouth cancer . In 1985 , she helped finance the start - up of the Performing Animal Welfare Society ( PAWS ) and devoted a great deal of time and money in support of its efforts , 