Amber Evangeline Valletta ( born February 9 , 1974 ) is an American supermodel and actress . Valletta was born in Phoenix , Arizona . Shortly thereafter , her family moved to Tulsa , Oklahoma . She attended Booker T. Washington High School . She got her start in the fashion industry when her mother enrolled her in modeling school at the age of fifteen at the Linda Layman Agency . Valletta has gone on to act in several films , been on the cover of magazines and in advertisements for Louis Vuitton , Calvin Klein and Versace and hosted MTV 's House of Style with friend and fellow supermodel Shalom Harlow . Valletta was scheduled to appear on Punk'd on Season 6 Episode 3 , along with David Boreanaz and Kristin Cavallari , but Kutcher had to move the prank played on Valletta to an episode later to make room for the prank played on Dallas Cowboys wide receiver Terrell Owens , which is based on his suspension on November 19 , 2005 , while playing for the Philadelphia Eagles . Valletta is married to renowned Olympic volleyball player Christian " Chip " McCaw , with whom she has a son , Auden . Before her marriage , she dated Leonardo Dicaprio in early 1998 . As of August 24 , 2006 , her publicist announced that she was going into rehab for non - substance abuse issues related to stress and image problems . Valletta also serves as the spokesperson for Oceana’s Seafood Contamination Campaign , where she brings awareness of the dangers of mercury poisoning in various kinds of seafood . The decision to join Oceana 's campaign was prompted by the mercury - poisoning experience of a friend and the fact that she is a mother . In August 2006 , the New York Daily News reported that Valletta completed a stint at The Meadow rehabilitation facility in Wickenburg , Arizona , for stress and non - substance - related issues . Valletta told People magazine , " As was correctly reported earlier this week , my stay at The Meadows had nothing to do with substance abuse or addiction ; I am pleased to say I have seven years ' sobriety . But I continue every day to heal and grow as a person " . Originally scheduled to appear on Season 6 Episode 3 , but moved to Season 6 Episode 4 due to Terrell Owens suspension . 