Amber Rose Tamblyn ( born May 14 , 1983 ) is an Emmy and Golden Globe - nominated American actress and poet . She came to fame on the soap opera General Hospital followed by a starring role on the television series Joan of Arcadia . She has branched out into film roles , appearing in The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants and The Grudge 2 . Tamblyn was born in Santa Monica , California , the daughter of actor Russ Tamblyn and musician / writer Bonnie Murray . At the age of 10 , she played Pippi Longstocking at the Santa Monica Alternative School House ; her father 's agent , Sharon Debord , was attending as a family friend and ended up convincing her father to allow Tamblyn to go on auditions . Tamblyn was cast as Emily Bowen ( later known as Emily Quartermaine ) on the soap opera General Hospital , a role which she played for six years ( from 1995 to 2001 ) . She also appeared in the films Rebellious and Johnny Mysto : Boy Wizard ( both co - starring her father ) , as well as in Live Nude Girls ( 1995 ) and in the opening scene of the 2002 horror film The Ring . Tamblyn also made a number of guest appearances on several television shows , including Buffy the Vampire Slayer , in which she played Janice Penshaw , the best friend of Dawn Summers , as well as Boston Public , CSI : Miami , and Punk'd ( after being tricked by Ashton Kutcher or his crew members for losing someone else 's dog ) . Tamblyn became well known for playing Joan Girardi , a teenage girl who receives frequent visits from God on the CBS drama series Joan of Arcadia . That role earned her both a Golden Globe and Emmy nomination in 2004 . Tamblyn 's father made several appearances as God in the form of a dog walker on the show , which ran from 2003 to 2005 . Tamblyn 's first major film role was in 2005 's well - reviewed The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants , alongside Alexis Bledel , America Ferrera , and Blake Lively . She portrayed Tabitha " Tibby " Tomko - Rollins , a girl who intended to make a documentary , rather a " suckumentary , " while the rest of her friends - - played by Bledel , Ferrera , and Lively - - leave for the summer . When Tibby befriends a young girl played by Jenna Boyd , her perspective on life - - and her documentary - - greatly changes . In August , 2006 , Tamblyn won the Bronze Leapord at the Locarno International Film Festival for her performance in the title role of Stephanie Daley . The film , which also won an award at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival , features Tamblyn as a sixteen - year - old who kills her baby moments after giving birth in the bathroom of a ski resort . The film also stars Tilda Swinton and Timothy Hutton . Tamblyn 's also appeared in the Japan - set The Grudge 2 , a sequel to The Grudge . The film , which also stars Sarah Michelle Gellar , was released on October 13 , 2006 , and debuted in the # 1 spot at the North American box office . Tamblyn , who learned about Japanese culture while filming the role , agreed to star in the film because she had wanted 