America Georgine Ferrera ( born April 18 , 1984 ) is an American actress . She is perhaps best known for her roles in the films Real Women Have Curves and The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants and for her Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild Award - winning role as Betty Suarez on the ABC television dramedy series Ugly Betty . Ferrera , the youngest of six siblings , was born in Los Angeles , California to Honduran parents and was raised by her mother in the Woodland Hills section of Los Angeles . She started acting at age eight in school plays and community theater . She attended high school at El Camino Real High School in Woodland Hills . In interviews , Ferrera has noted the contrast between the image of the " typical Latina " experience and her own childhood , observing that growing up in a mostly Jewish , non - Hispanic neighborhood , she attended " 52 bar mitzvahs and not a single quinceañera. " . Ferrera attends the University of Southern California , where she is double - majoring in Theater and International Relations ; as of January 2007 , she lacked only one semester 's coursework to earn her degree . In July of 2002 she made her first movie Gotta Kick It Up ! . In 2002 , she made her film debut in Real Women Have Curves . Ferrera followed this with roles in both television ( Touched by an Angel ) and film ( The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants and Lords of Dogtown ) . Ferrera received a 2005 Movieline Breakthrough Award . In December 2005 , she appeared in the off - Broadway play Dog Sees God : Confessions of a Teenage Blockhead , directed by Trip Cullman . In 2006 , she landed the lead role in Ugly Betty , an adaptation of the Colombian hit telenovela Betty La Fea , in which she portrays a girl that her peers find extremely unattractive , thus the series title . As Betty Suarez , Ferrera wears fake braces on her teeth , bushy eyebrows and a disheveled wig , and make - up and clothing intended to downplay her own good looks . Ferrera 's famous smile is reportedly insured by Lloyd 's of London for $10 million . According to Ugly Betty hair department head Roddy Stayton , " She 's a gorgeous girl with an incredible style sensibility in her personal life . What we do is Bettify her in the morning . It 's in contrast to the rest of the show , where everybody else is glammed up " , adding that it was Ferrera herself who coined the term " Bettification " to describe the process . For her role in Ugly Betty , Ferrera won the 2007 Golden Globe for Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series - Comedy or Musical , beating out fellow nominees Marcia Cross , Felicity Huffman , Julia Louis - Dreyfus and Mary - Louise Parker . As a result of the award , she was congratulated by the US House of Representatives as being a role model for young Latinas . On 28 January 2007 Ferrera won the prestigious Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Female Actor in a Comedy Series . She also starred in and executive produced the poignant short film Muertas . Ferrera is currently dating Ryan Piers Williams , whom she met while working on his student film at USC. Ferrera has denied rumors that they are engaged . 