Amrish Lal Puri ( Hindi : अमरीश पुरी , Urdu : اَمریش پُری , June 22 , 1932 – January 12 , 2005 ) was an Indian actor who appeared primarily in Bollywood movies . He acted as a main or supporting role in over 400 movies . He played character roles and was well - known as a villain . He had a striking bass voice and an outsize acting style that made him a convincing villain in even the most melodramatic movies . One of his outstanding role was of Mogambo he played in movie Mr. India . He died in Mumbai , after a brain hemorrhage . Amrish Puri was born in Distt . Nawanshehar near by Jalandhar in the Punjab region of India . His parents were ( father ) Lala Nihal Chand and ( mother ) Ved Kaur . He had four siblings , elder brothers Chaman Puri and Madan Puri ( both of whom also became actors ) , elder sister Chandrakanta , and a younger brother , Harish Puri . He graduated from BM College in Simla , Himachal Pradesh . Amrish came to Bombay with not even hundred rupees in his pocket and made it so big with his sheer hard work , perseverance , and disciplined lifestyle . He married Urmila Divekar on the 5th of January , 1957 , at the Shri Krishna Temple in Wadala . The couple had two children , son Rajeev Puri and daughter , Namrata Puri . His son Rajeev is a business man . He has four grand children Sachi , Harsh Vardhan , Shantanu Bagwe and Krish Bagwe . Sachi is a 19 year old aspiring doctor whereas Harsh is a student in Jamnabai Narsee School ( Juhu , Mumbai ) and a very enthusiastic young man . Amrish was very close to him . His daughter in law , Meena , is a professional physiotherapist . She practices at her Juhu clinic.Amrish had a passion for collecting hats and bought a hat or two on every abroad trip of his.He has a collection of over 200 hats from across the world.Amrish was a very religious person by heart and a Shiv devotee . Amrish Puri worked in Bollywood , Hollywood , Punjabi , Telugu and Tamil films . Though he was successful in all of these industries , he is best known for his work in Bollywood cinema . He has appeared in over four hundred movies . His dominating screen presence & booming voice made him stand out amongst a sea of actors . When Amrish reached Bombay his brother Madan Puri was already an established actor , known for playing villain roles . Amrish failed his first screen test and had to find a job with the Ministry of Labour . He started performing at the Prithvi Theatre , in plays written by Satyadev Dubey . He eventually became well - known as stage actor . Theatre work led to work in television ads and eventually to film . In 1971 he appeared in his first film , Reshma Aur Shera ; he played a villain . This was followed by many villain roles in films such as Nishant , Manthan , and Bhumika . He attracted a great deal of attention for his work in Mr. India , a Bollywood movie directed by Shekhar Kapur . He played the evil Mogambo , who encouraged his underlings with the phrase , Mogambo khush hua ( Mogambo is pleased ) . The phrase became a popular catchword . He became a 