Amy Lysle Smart ( born March 26 , 1976 ) is an American actress and former fashion model . Amy Lysle Smart was born in Topanga , California to John Smart ( a salesman ) and Judy Carrington ( who worked at the Getty Center in Los Angeles ) ; she has a brother , Adam . Inspired by her friend Vinessa Shaw , Smart studied ballet for ten years and enrolled in acting classes when she was 16 , but began her career as a fashion model , working in Italy , France , Mexico , and Tahiti . She modeled with Ali Larter in Milan . Smart had a very minor role in the 1997 film Starship Troopers as the co - pilot for ( and friend of ) Carmen Ibanez ( Denise Richards ) . In 1999 , Smart played the girlfriend of a popular football player ( played by James Van Der Beek ) in the film Varsity Blues . Also , Smart appeared in the series Felicity , as a girlfriend of Scott Foley 's character . She subsequently appeared in a number of films catering to a teenage audience , many of which were successful , including Road Trip ( 2000 ) and The Butterfly Effect ( 2004 ) . In 2002 , she was ranked # 27 in Stuff magazine 's " 100 Sexiest Women in the World " and in 2004 , she was nominated for " Best Kiss " at the MTV Movie Awards for her role in Starsky & Hutch . In 2005 , Smart co - starred with Ryan Reynolds in the romantic comedy film Just Friends , which had a total domestic box office gross of $32 million and a total worldwide box office of $46.7 million . She also had a small role in American sitcom Scrubs , playing the wife of a coma patient , and was nicknamed TCW ( Tasty Coma Wife ) by JD and his friends . JD has a short relationship with her following the death of her husband . On September 1 , 2006 , Crank was released , in which she plays the girlfriend of the lead character , Chev ( played by Jason Statham ) . Smart was a regular cast member in the CBS television series Smith , which has been cancelled . She also has voiced some of the characters in the series Robot Chicken , created by Seth Green . Smart was the speaker for the " Heal the Bay " organization ; she has also worked with the Humane Society and the " Environmental Media Association " , and was named one of Organic Style magazine 's " Women with Organic Style " of 2004 . Smart is engaged to actor Branden Williams , whom she has dated for over ten years . She is a close friend of actress Ali Larter , with whom she appeared in the film Varsity Blues . She has two cats , Yogi and Nala , and a puppy named Oscar . Smart is friends with author and animal communicator Amelia Kinkade , and was acknowledged in Kinkade 's second book , The Language of Miracles . Amy is also a former vegetarian . She is currently living in Los Angeles . Smart has a brother named Adam . She was ranked # 100 in Vh1 's " The Greatest : 100 Hottest Hotties " . Her father , John , is a salesman and her mother , Judy Carrington , is a former worker at the Jean Paul 