Amy Irving ( born September 10 , 1953 in Palo Alto , California ) is an American actress . Amy Irving was born on September 10 , 1953 , to film and stage director Jules Irving and actress Priscilla Pointer . Amy Irving 's brother is writer / director David Irving ( not the British historian of the same name ) , and her sister is singer Katie Irving . In the late ' 60s and early ' 70s , Irving attended acting school at the American Conservatory Theatre in San Francisco where she appeared in a number of their theatrical productions . She also trained at LAMDA , ( the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art ) and made her off - Broadway debut at the age of 17 . Irving was married to the American film director Steven Spielberg from 1985 to 1989 . In 1990 she became romantically and professionally involved with the Brazilian film director Bruno Barreto , and they were married in 1996 . She has two sons , Max Samuel , ( with Spielberg ) , and Gabriel ( with Barreto ) . Irving and Barreto were divorced in 2005 . Amy Irving 's screen performances include roles in the Brian DePalma - directed films The Fury as Gillian Bellaver , and Carrie as Sue Snell ( in which she co - starred with her mother ) , as well as in the 1983 film " Yentl " ( for which she was nominated for an Oscar ) , in Susan Sandler 's 1988 film , " Crossing Delancey " ( for which she was nominated for a Golden Globe ) as Isabelle , and Woody Allen 's 1997 film Deconstructing Harry . Micki + Maude , directed by Blake Edwards and starring Dudley Moore was a hit for her in 1984 . She supplied the singing voice for Jessica Rabbit in the animated film Who Framed Roger Rabbit . Irving also appeared in the television show Alias as Emily Sloane . In the 2000 's , Irving had a somewhat comeback with intelligent film and television roles , roles include Traffic ( 2000 ) , Tuck Everlasting ( 2002 ) , Thirteen Conversations About One Thing ( 2002 ) and a powerful episode of Law & Order : Special Victims Unit in 2001 . Irving 's stage work includes The Heidi Chronicles , The Road to Mecca , Celadine , a world premiere at George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick , NJ and , more recently , the 2006 one - woman play , A Safe Harbor for Elizabeth Bishop , by Marta Góes , which was a Primary Stages production at the 59E59 Theaters . Irving is currently starring in the American premiere of Tom Stoppard 's The Coast of Utopia at New York 's Lincoln Center . Amy Irving received an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the film Yentl , Golden Globe nominations for her performances in the films Anastasia : The Mystery of Anna and Crossing Delancey , and an Obie Award for her stage performance in The Road to Mecca . Irving holds the dubious distinction of being one of only two people to be nominated for both an Oscar and a Razzie Award for the same performance . Irving was nominated for both Best and Worst Supporting Actress for her work in Yentl . Only James Coco achieved the same feat for his work in Only When I Laugh . Who Framed Roger Rabbit ( 1988 ) ( voice ) As 