Amy Yasbeck ( born September 12 , 1962 ) is an American film and television actress . Yasbeck was born in Cincinnati , Ohio . As a child , Yasbeck was featured on the package art for the Betty Crocker Easy - Bake Oven . Years later , in 2000 , she was presented with a new Easy - Bake Oven on the show I've Got a Secret for which she was a regular panel member . She spent her elementary , middle and high school years at two different Catholic schools : Summit Country Day School and Ursuline Academy . She is noted for her long red hair and is of Irish and Lebanese heritage . After losing both of her parents , her father from a heart attack and her mother from emphysema , Yasbeck moved to New York . Amy Yasbeck has had starring roles in the sitcoms Wings , Alright Already , and Life on a Stick and in movies such as The Mask , Pretty Woman , and Robin Hood : Men in Tights . She also played the part of Madison the mermaid in the Disney TV movie Splash , Too in 1988 . Yasbeck is the widow of actor John Ritter , with whom she had worked in several projects . She first met him at director Dennis Dugan 's house during a read - through of their 1990 movie Problem Child . According to Yasbeck , Ritter forced her to eat a bagel and cream cheese because he thought she was too thin . He also thought she was too young to play his wife in the movie ( Ritter was almost 15 years Yasbeck 's senior ) . Yasbeck and Ritter also starred together in Problem Child 2 ( 1991 ) and guest - starred together in an episode of The Cosby Show which aired in 1991 . The couple had a daughter , Stella , in 1998 , and married in 1999 . On September 11 , 2003 , Ritter died after collapsing on the set of his sitcom , 8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage Daughter . The cause of death was an aortic dissection stemming from a previously undiagnosed congenital heart defect . The date of his death was their daughter 's fifth birthday , the day before Yasbeck 's forty - first birthday , and six days before their wedding anniversary and his own birthday . Yasbeck eventually filed a lawsuit against the hospital where Ritter died . She and her stepchildren from Ritter 's previous marriage to Nancy Morgan claimed that the doctors at St. Joseph 's Medical Center in Burbank , California misdiagnosed the heart condition that cost Ritter his life . 