Ana de la Reguera ( b. April 8 , 1977 in Veracruz , Mexico ) is a Mexican telenovela and movie actress . Born Anabell Gardoqui De La Reguera , Ana began her performance arts studies in the Instituto Veracruzano de Cultura and was the host of Pasarela on Televisa Veracruz . She left the Televisa 's CEA , and then studied with Rosa María Bianchi , Patricia Reyes Spíndola and Rafael Miranau . She also studied with Raúl Quintanilla in the Centro de Formación Actoral de TV Azteca ( CEFAC ) . Her professional career began with her role in the telenovela Azul ( 1996 ) followed by Pueblo chico , infierno grande ( 1997 ) for which she received the Heraldo award for best female acting , and Desencuentro which was her third telenovela under the direction of Ernesto Alonso . Tentaciones ( 1998 ) marked her beginning with the production company Producciones Argos . She was immediately offered a role in Destino and Todo por amor , for which she received the Palmas de oro award . Cara o Cruz was the first telenovela co - production between Argos and Telemundo , that was made exclusively for the hispanic audience living in the U.S. It was later rebroadcasted in Mexico , by independent channel CNI . Ana was also seen playing María in the telenovela Por tí for TV Azteca and the mini - series that followed up on Pedro El Escamoso , Como Pedro por su casa which was a co - production between Caracol from Colombia and Telemundo . She has been in many commercials and TV shows in Mexico , such as : Mujer , casos de la vida real , Al derecho y al Dérbez , Íntimamente Shanik , Chiquitos pero picosos , La venta increíble , Llévatelo , and Cómplices en familia , to mention only a few . In theatre she has participated in El cartero directed by Raúl Quintanilla , for which she received two awards from the ' Mexican Association of Theatre Journalists . Her introduction to film began in Por la Libre , under the direction of Juan Carlos de Llaca . Later she acted in the film Un Secreto de Esperanza and in 2003 Ladies ' Night , alongside Ana Claudia Talancón . In 2005 she played the starring role in Gitanas which aired on Telemundo in the U.S . She played the role of beautiful nun Sister Encarnación in Nacho Libre , the film by Jared Hess , director of Napoleon Dynamite . She has also often been mistaken for Penélope Cruz and Paz Vega . She hosted the 2006 Video Music Awards Latin America along with Mexican band Molotov . She can be seen soon in three movies : Sultanes del Sur due for release in 2006 , Paraiso Travel also in 2006 , and A Happy Death due for release sometime in 2007 . Currently she is working with Argos Comunicacion on the HBO Latin American series " Capadocia " along with Rebecca Jones . 