Ana Kristina Gasteyer ( born May 4 , 1967 ) is an American actress and comedian . She is perhaps best known as a cast member of Saturday Night Live ( SNL ) in the 1990s and early 2000s . Born in Washington , D.C. , Gasteyer graduated from Sidwell Friends School and Northwestern University . She got her role on SNL due to her experience with the famed Los Angeles improv - sketch comedy group called The Groundlings . She can also be seen as a customer in the famous " Soup Nazi " episode of Seinfeld , which was taped shortly before she secured her SNL gig . Gasteyer joined the cast of Saturday Night Live in 1996 . Ana left SNL in 2002 . Since then , she has appeared in various television programs and films as well as in stage productions . In 2004 , Ana played the mother of the main character Cady Heron ( Lindsay Lohan ) in the feature film Mean Girls , written by SNL castmate Tina Fey . The film also featured other former SNL castmates , including Fey , Tim Meadows , and Amy Poehler . She also appeared in Reefer Madness . Recently , Gasteyer starred as Elphaba , the Wicked Witch of the West , in the sit - down production of the musical Wicked at the Oriental Theater in Chicago , Illinois . After Wicked , Gasteyer starred in a revival of The Threepenny Opera on Broadway as Mrs. Peachum , along with Jim Dale , Alan Cumming , and Cyndi Lauper . Gasteyer most recently reprised her role as Elphaba in Wicked on Broadway . She began her run on October 10 , 2006 , replacing former actress Eden Espinosa , finishing on January 7 , 2007 . She starred alongside former Wicked co - star , Kate Reinders who played the role of Glinda . They were replaced by Julia Murney as Elphaba and Kendra Kassebaum as Glinda , who currently star in the production as of January 9 , 2007 . On April 12 , 2007 , it was announced that Gasteyer has joined the cast of the new musical , Writing Arthur , for the 2007 New Works Festival for TheatreWorks in California which will run from April 14 - 22 . Gasteyer and her husband , Charlie McKittrick , have a daughter , Frances , with whom Ana was pregnant during her final season on SNL ( a first for an SNL cast member ) . 