Ana Ortiz ( born January 251971 ) is an American actress and singer . She is a native of Manhattan , New York but was raised in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania . She is currently a regular on the ABC dramedy series Ugly Betty , in which she plays the title character 's older sister , Hilda Suarez . Ortiz is the daughter of Angel L. Ortiz , the first Puerto Rican city councilman in the Philadelphia City Council and a mother who works in Manhattan with autistic children and runs a soup kitchen . As a child , Ortiz originally dreamed of becoming a ballerina , and she studied ballet for eight years , until the pain of dancing en pointes forced her to pursue a different artistic discipline , prompting her to pursue a career outside of the world of ballet . Switching to singing , Ortiz attended the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts ( the school of Fame ) in New York City and later the University of the Arts in Philadelphia before making her professional stage debut in a regional theater production of " Dangerous Liaisons. " . Her additional stage credits include portraying Chrissy in a European touring production of Hair , regional theater productions such as " Dog Lady and the Cuban Swimmer " and in the South Coast Repertory Theater 's production of " References to Salvador Dali Make Me Hot. " . After joining LAByrinth Theatre Company , she appeared off - Broadway in " In Arabia , We'd All Be Kings , " directed by Philip Seymour Hoffman ( " Almost Famous " ) and named one of the 10 - best plays of 1999 by the magazine Time Out New York . On television , Ortiz 's resume includes NYPD Blue , Dr. Quinn : Medicine Woman , Commander In Chief , Boston Legal , ER , The New Adventures of Old Christine , Over There and her first full - time series role , Kristin . In addition to her current gig on Ugly Betty she is also active in films , which include starring roles King of L.A. and Tortilla Heaven . Ortiz lives in Los Angeles , California . In her spare time she enjoys hiking , horseback riding , softball , and water sports . She also writes poetry . She is engaged to be married to musician Noah Lebenzon on June 9 , 2007 . Ortiz is one of two Philadelphians who are regulars on Ugly Betty , the other being Mark Indelicato , who plays her son Justin . Another connection to the city is co - star Becki Newton ( who plays Amanda ) and who graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia . 