Andrew James Tiernan ( born on November 30 1965 in Birmingham , UK ) is an English actor . He began acting with the Birmingham Youth Theatre and moved to London in 1984 to study a three - year Diploma in Acting at the Drama Centre London run by Christopher Fettes and Yat Malmgren . He gained the role of Piers Gaveston in Derek Jarman’s controversial film of Christopher Marlowe 's Edward II in 1991 , after appearing in Lynda La Plante 's award - winning drama Prime Suspect . In the same year , Andrew went on to star as Orlando and Oliver in Christine Edzard 's version of Shakespeare 's As You Like It playing alongside actors ; James Fox and Cyril Cusack . He is memorable for his role as the creepy Szalas of the Underground Movement , in Roman Polanski 's award winning film The Pianist . His character neglects to look after Wladyslaw Szpilman ( Adrian Brody ) and instead of feeding him , drinks his vodka and steals his watch . He has also worked with Antonia Bird on a number of improvisational film productions , including Safe ( Bafta - Best single drama ) , Face , Rehab and Spooks . His acting career has now spanned over fifteen years , during which he has consistently worked and he has become a well - known figure amongst fans of high - quality British television drama . In 1993 , he starred as the stuttering psychopath Sean Kerrigan in the episode " To Say I Love You " of Jimmy McGovern 's Cracker . He 's known as an actor 's actor and a great character actor . In 1998 , in one such outstanding series Hornblower he played the ill - fated but memorable role of Bunting in the second episode " The Examination For Lieutenant " . Andrew recently completed filming Zack Snyder 's 300 , an adaptation of the Frank Miller graphic novel ( also called 300 ) based on the heroism of 300 elite Spartan warriors at the ancient Battle of Thermopylae in Greece , in which he portrays the legendary traitor Ephialtes . Filming took place from October 2005 - January 2006 in Montreal . In the role of Ephialtes , in film depicted as a completely deformed hunchback , Andrew was dressed in full body prosthetics which took 10 hours each day to complete . 