Andrew Jordt Robinson ( born February 14 , 1942 ) is an American film , stage , and television actor . Robinson is a character actor known to specialize in playing devious and psychotic roles . Originally a stage actor , he works predominantly in supporting roles on television and in low - budget films . He is best known for his role as the serial - killer Scorpio in the crime film Dirty Harry ( 1971 ) , the role of Larry Cotton in the horror film Hellraiser ( 1987 ) , and the recurring role as Elim Garak on the television show Star Trek : Deep Space Nine ( 1993–1999 ) . Robinson was born in New York City . His father was a soldier in World War II , and was killed when Robinson was three years old . After his father 's death , he and his mother moved to Hartford , Connecticut to be raised with her family . In his later childhood , Robinson had become a juvenile delinquent , and was eventually sent to St. Andrew 's School in Rhode Island , a boarding school for troubled children . After graduating from high school , Robinson attended the University of New Hampshire . After picketing the school 's ROTC program his degree was withheld by the university , so he transferred to the New School for Social Research in New York City , and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in English . He originally intended to become a journalist , but went into acting after gaining a Fulbright Scholarship on the suggestion of an art history professor . After graduating , he went to the London Academy for Music and Dramatic Arts on the scholarship . Robinson began acting in high school and college theatre . While attending the London Academy for Music and Dramatic Arts , Robinson studied Shakespeare and voice training . His first professional roles were as a stage actor and playwright in New York . His first role in New York was in the play Macbird - Macbeth . He would go on to act in productions throughout North America and Europe , including Woyzeck , Futz , and The Cannibals . In 1969 he had his first television role with a guest part on N.Y.P.D. at the age of 26 . In 1971 he would begin acting in feature films . Robinson as Scorpio in Dirty Harry ( 1971 ) . Robinson 's first feature film role was in 1971 's Dirty Harry . Don Siegel , the film 's director , and Clint Eastwood picked Robinson for the role after seeing him in a production of Fyodor Dostoevsky 's The Idiot. Robinson was cast as the Scorpio killer , the antagonist of the film . The Scorpio Killer was heavily based on the real life serial killer known as the Zodiac Killer , and Robinson integrated many known aspects of the killer 's personality into his acting , such as a disturbed sense of humor and a sadistic inclination to taunt his pursuers . In the film , his character murdered several young women and took hostage a school bus full of young children . His portrayal of the serial killer was so convincing that he began getting serious death threats after the film 's release . Director Don Siegel noted that he cast Robinson because he had the face of " a choir boy. " . Critical reactions to Robinson 's role were generally positive . Box Office Magazine wrote that , " Andy Robinson 