Andrea Nicole Parker ( born March 8 , 1970 in Monterey County , California ) is an American actress and former ballet dancer . Parker began ballet training at age 6 and at age 15 she joined a professional dance company . She quit her career in ballet after three years of touring and trained to become an actress while working as a bartender . Her first documented film role was at age 19 in the movie Rented Lips in which she played a dancer / nurse . Andrea Parker got her break in television playing a nurse on the award - winning Seinfeld episode " The Contest " in 1992 . After that first speaking role , she had several other guest - starring roles in television series and movies , most notably a recurring role in ER as Linda Farrell , the love interest of Dr. Doug Ross , and as Caitlin Pike in JAG . She was a body double for Julia Roberts in the movie Pretty Woman ; hers are the legs seen in the opening scene of the main character zipping up her boots . She also did several pilots before she gained a cult - following for her role as Miss Parker on the NBC television series The Pretender . Parker says she felt compelled to play the role of the complex , cynical , powerful and intimidating yet somewhat tortured Ice Queen because her name was " all over the script. " . Miss Parker is a character many viewers love and others love to hate . Parker also played the minor role of Catherine Parker , Miss Parker 's mother in The Pretender , a role that is in stark contrast to the character Miss Parker . After The Pretender was cancelled by NBC in 2000 , Parker did another guest spot on JAG before signing on to reprise her role as Miss Parker in the telemovies for The Pretender , which aired on TNT in 2001 . She then returned to series television in 2002 and starred in the ABC network comedy Less Than Perfect , playing Lydia Weston until it was cancelled in 2006 . She has made several guest appearances on television talk shows and celebrity events such as the various celebrity poker tournaments . Parker is noted for her support of various charities such as the National Hospice Palliative Care Organization , Glenn Siegel 's My Good Friend charity organization , The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson 's research and Project Angel Food. Parker is also trained as a stunt - driver and can handle firearms . In February 2006 , Parker attended a benefit to help with former Pretender co - stars Michael T. Weiss and James Denton for Cure Autism Now . 