Andrea Arnold ( born 5 April 1961 ) is an Academy Award winning filmmaker and former actress from England , who made her feature length directorial debut in 2006 with Red Road . Andrea Arnold first came to prominence as an actress and television presenter alongside Sandi Toksvig , Nick Staverson and Neil Buchanan in the children 's television show No. 73 . This Saturday morning show on ITV , in which she played Dawn Lodge , had a similar premise to that of The Kumars at No. 42 in the way that the show was part sitcom , part chat show and based at a domestic residence . In addition to these parts , the show had the usual mix of music , competitions and cartoons ( such as Roger Ramjet ) that was in keeping to the formula of British Saturday morning children 's TV of the 1980s . In 1988 No. 73 had morphed into 7T3 , with the set being moved from the London house ( in fact in TVS studios in Kent ) to that of a theme park . This revamp would only last the season , but Andrea would be seen for another two years in the same timeslot as part of the Motormouth presenting team . In 1990 she presented and wrote for the environmental awareness show for teens , A Beetle Called Derek . This also featured Benjamin Zephaniah and gave exposure to The Yes / No People of Stomp fame . The Dartford native put her days presenting children 's TV well behind her when she won an Oscar for her gritty , live - action short film , Wasp , in 2005 . Red Road is the first installment in a planned trilogy . Set on a grim , windswept housing estate in Glasgow , the revenge themed story centres on a CCTV ( security TV cameras ) operator who develops an obsession with someone she observes , for reasons that become clear through the progress of the film . The picture has won the British director comparisons with established names such as Michael Haneke and Lars von Trier . Screen International critic Allan Hunter said the film was " likely to emerge as one of the discoveries of this year 's Cannes Film Festival ( 2006 ) . " . She won the 2007 BAFTA for Best Newcomer and £10,000 for directing Red Road . 