Andreas Wisniewski was born July 3 , 1959 , in Berlin , Germany . The 194 cm ( 6 foot 4 inch ) blond German spent the early part of his life dancing before turning to acting . Wisniewski made his big screen debut in the 1986 Gothic , a film about Mary Shelley 's Frankenstein in which Wisniewski plays the role of Fletcher . Probably his biggest film came the following year in 1987 Bond film The Living Daylights . Wisniewski portrays lethal hitman Necros who over the space of the film impersonates a Cockney milkman , an American jogger , an Austrian balloon salesman , and a doctor . His next mainstream role was as one of Hans Gruber 's ( Alan Rickman ) henchmen , Tony , in the 1988 blockbuster Die Hard . The scene of Tony 's body in the lift with the phrase " Now I Have A Machine Gun . Ho - Ho - Ho " on his shirt proves to be one of the most famous shots from the film . Wisniewski disappeared from the big screen only to reappear in TV shows Superboy , Mann & Machine and Northern Exposure where he played Arthur , the bear . He reappeared on the big screen in the 1995 science - fiction film Death Machine playing Weyland , and again in 1996 in a non speaking role as Max 's companion in another box office smash Mission Impossible . Wisniewski then reverted to his German roots by starring in a string of German films . Andreas Wisniewski as Dr Quinn in Urban Ghost Story . Wisniewski has also appeared in 2 music videos in his career . He was in the video Venus , sung by the girl group Bananarama , and also appeared as a soldier in the background of Elton John 's video Nikita , where can be seen in the background as Elton John 's Rolls Royce pulls up to the security gate . In 2001 Wisniewski turned his hand to directing , he made a short film called Inpiration starring English Actors Daniel Webb and Christine Adams . An Andreas Wisniewski is credited as a part in the bio - pic Surviving Picasso alongside Anthony Hopkins . This Andreas Wisniewski is , in fact , a different actor . 