Andrea Desiree Lewis ( born August 15 , 1985 in Pickering , Ontario ) is a Canadian born actress best known for her portrayal of Hazel Aden on the teen drama Degrassi : The Next Generation . Lewis is half Jamaican on her mother 's side and half Vincentian on her father 's side . Lewis began acting at age two . Apart from acting , Lewis is also a budding singer , having trained her voice at the famous New York Music Conservatory . Lewis has also written some songs , although none of them have become a major hit . Lewis appeared alongside Diahann Carroll in the biopic The Natalie Cole Story . She also acted alongside Naomi Judd in A Holiday Romance , which was a television Christmas special . In 1998 , she played " Cassandra " in the critically acclaimed feature , Down in the Delta . In 2001 , she received the first of two opportunities to participate in Soul Food : The Series on Showtime . She played " Brigette " in an episode titled " God Bless the Child " . One of her biggest breaks in acting came later on in 2002 , when she got the opportunity to play Hilary Duff 's best friend in the made for television movie Cadet Kelly , where she also acted alongside Christy Carlson Romano . This movie became a regular feature on American cable channel Disney . She played " Carla Hall " in the movie . In 2003 , she reappeared on Soul Food : The Series , once again for only one episode , but this time , playing a different character : " Dana " . What has been , so far , arguably her biggest break in the entertainment business , however , came also in 2002 , when she began to play " Hazel Aden " in Degrassi : The Next Generation . Degrassi : The Next Generation followed in the steps of six other shows branded with the Degrassi name ( dating back to 1979 ) in becoming a major hit across Canada , and Lewis reached fame , at least among teenaged television viewers . In 2002 , Degrassi : The Next Generation began to be shown on Nickelodeon 's The N , a network geared towards more mature adolescent audiences , and Lewis began to become known in the United States as well . On September 20 2005 , her debut album , " Float Away " was released in Canada only . Give Me your Love feat . 