Andrew Dick ( born December 21 , 1965 ) is an American comedian and actor best known for his roles on the sitcoms NewsRadio and Less Than Perfect . Dick was born in Charleston , South Carolina . He was adopted at birth by Allen and Sue Dick . In 1980 Andy attended Lassiter High School which was being temporarily housed at George Walton High School in Cobb County Georgia . Dick graduated from Joliet West High School ( Joliet , Illinois ) in 1984 . He was in numerous productions during high school , was well known as the class clown , and was elected homecoming king his senior year in the fall of 1983 . Even in high school , Dick tended to use his name as a joke . One day while dressed in the Joliet West gold athletic sweats he pulled on a pair of red shorts over his sweats and used a red towel as a cape matching his shorts . He presented himself at school as " Super Dick. " He 's good friends with theatre personality Anthony Rapp , who has known him since they were children . During his high school years , he ran for a student office position against one of the school 's more popular athletes . For his campaign ads , he chose to heavily advertise the slogan " Do n't vote for a jock , vote for A. Dick ! " Because it was his name , the school administration failed to stop him from using this slogan ; he won the election . He attended Columbia College Chicago and is registered as one of the school 's " distinguished alumni " . According to faculty member David Wooley , during his final for Stage Combat his partner did not show up and , faced with a failing grade , Andy decided to fight himself , earning him an A for the final . He was a cast member on the sketch comedy program The Ben Stiller Show , which aired on FOX from September 1992 to January 1993 . He also starred as the son of Maxwell Smart and Agent 99 in a Get Smart TV remake . He was a regular cast member ( portraying Matthew , the clumsy and clueless production assistant ) on the sitcom Newsradio for the duration of its run on NBC ( 1995–1999 ) . In 1998 , Dick lent his voice to the character Nuka in The Lion King II : Simba 's Pride . In 2000 , Dick had a cameo role in the motion picture Dude , Where 's My Car ? . In 2000 , Dick had an appearance in the teenage comedy film Road Trip , playing the motel clerk . In 2001 , Andy created his show on MTV called The Andy Dick Show ; series ended in 2003 after three seasons . Andy starred in a satirical reality television show on the same channel called The Assistant in 2004 . The show spoofed themes and scenes from The Apprentice , The Bachelor , Queer Eye for the Straight Guy , Survivor , among others . Dick is also the lead singer of his band Andy Dick and the Bitches of the Century . They have appeared together on television . They released a self - titled album in 2002 . Dick also appeared in an episode of Star Trek : Voyager as the Mark II Emergency Medical Hologram in " Message in a Bottle " . Dick also provides the voice of Maurice 