Andrew Geoffrey Kaufman ( January 17 , 1949 – May 16 , 1984 ) was an American entertainer and performance artist . Though many refer to him as a comedian , Kaufman did not self - identify as one . He disdained telling jokes and engaging in comedy as it was traditionally understood ; instead , he was a practitioner of anti - humor or dada absurdist performance art . Kaufman was born in New York City on January 17 , 1949 into a Jewish family , the first son of Stanley and Janice Kaufman . He grew up in Great Neck , Long Island , New York , and began performing at the age of 7. He attended the now defunct two - year Grahm Junior College in Boston , graduating in 1971 . After leaving college he began performing stand - up comedy at various small clubs along the East coast . Kaufman first caught major attention with a character known as " Foreign Man " . Foreign Man , who claimed to be from " Caspiar " ( a fictional island in the Caspian Sea ) , would appear on the stage of comedy clubs and lip - synch one line — " Here I come to save the day " — from the theme from " Mighty Mouse " , tell a few lame jokes , and perform a number of bad impersonations ( Archie Bunker , Richard Nixon , etc ) . For example , he might say in a phony accent , " I would like to imitate Meester Carter , de President of de United States. " He would then say in the same voice , " Hello , I am Meester Carter , de President of de United States . Thenk you veddy much. " . The audience would be torn between outrage at seeing such a bad act , and sympathy for the hapless entertainer , who would cry on stage once heckled enough . At that point , Foreign Man would announce " And now I would like to imitate the Elvis Presley , " turn around , take off his jacket , slick his hair back , and launch into an Elvis Presley impersonation so good that Elvis Presley himself described it as his favorite . The audience would realize they had been tricked , which became a trademark of Kaufman 's comedy . Kaufman reprised a version of the Foreign Man character , now named LatkaGravas , for ABC 's Taxi sitcom , appearing in 114 episodes from 1978 to 1983 . The producers of Taxi had seen Andy 's Foreign Man act and , according to producer Ed Weinberger , " We were n't considering Andy for the show before we saw him . Then we wrote a part for him. " . Bob Zmuda confirms this : " They basically were buying Andy 's Foreign Man character for the Taxi character Latka. " Andy 's long - time manager George Shapiro encouraged Andy to take the gig . Kaufman hated sitcoms and was not thrilled with the idea of being on one . In order to allow Kaufman to demonstrate some comedic range , his character was given multiple personality disorder , which allowed Kaufman to randomly portray other characters . In one episode , Kaufman 's character came down with a condition which made him act like Alex Reiger , the main character played by Judd Hirsch . Another such recurring character played by Kaufman was the womanizing " Vic Ferrari " . Taxi was 