For the Emmerdale actor , see Andy Devine ( actor ) . Andrew Vabre " Andy " Devine ( October 7 , 1905 - February 18 , 1977 ) was a rotund , raspy - voiced American character actor and comic cowboy sidekick . He was born in Flagstaff , Arizona , and grew up in Kingman , where his family moved when he was a year old . He was not named Jeremiah Schwartz at birth , as it is often reported . However , he did use this name as a pseudonym during his college football years . He was a star football player at Ball State University , which led to his first film role in the silent film The Fighting Football Cardinals . Although it was at first thought that his peculiar voice would prevent him from moving to the talkies , it became his trademark and strongest selling point . Devine told people that his speech was the result of a childhood accident . However , a biographer explains that this was n't true but was one of several stories about his voice fabricated by Devine ; see the link to http : / / www.froggythegremlin.com / . Devine 's son Tad told an Encore Westerns Channel interviewer that the accident had indeed happened but that Andy Devine himself was uncertain whether it was the actual cause of his unique vocal quality . He appeared in more than 400 films and shared with Walter Brennan , another character actor , the rare ability to move with ease from " B " Westerns to " A " pictures . His notable roles included ten films as sidekick , " Cookie " , to Roy Rogers , a role in Romeo and Juliet ( 1937 ) , and " Danny " in A Star Is Born ( 1937 ) . He also made several appearances in films with John Wayne , including Stagecoach ( 1939 ) , Island in the Sky ( 1953 ) , and The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance ( 1962 ) . He also played " The Cheerful Soldier " in The Red Badge of Courage . While most of his characters were reluctant to get involved in the action , he played the hero in Island in the Sky , as an expert pilot who leads his fellow aviators through the arduous search for a missing airplane . Devine also worked in radio . He is well - remembered for his role as " Jingles " , Guy Madison 's sidekick in The Adventures of Wild Bill Hickok , which Devine and Madison reprised on television . He often appeared on Jack Benny 's radio show , sometimes appearing in Benny 's semi - regular western series of sketches " Buck Benny Rides Again " . Devine also worked in television . He played " Hap " on the TV series Flipper and hosted a children 's TV show , Andy 's Gang . He starred in a Twilight Zone episode as " Frisby " , a talkative braggart faced with an alien invasion called " Hocus - Pocus and Frisby " . He was also a frequent guest star in many television shows throughout the 1950s and 1960s . In addition , Devine performed voice parts in animated films , including " Friar Tuck " in Disney 's Robin Hood . He provided the voice of Corneliusthe Kellogg 's Rooster in some TV commercials for their Corn Flakes . His film appearances in his later years included movies such as Over 