Aaron McGruder ( born May 29 , 1974 in Chicago , Illinois ) is an American cartoonist best known for writing and drawing The Boondocks , a Universal Press Syndicate comic strip about two young African - American brothers from inner - city Chicago now living with their grandfather in a sedate suburb . Through the leftist Huey ( named after Huey P. Newton ) and his younger brother Riley , a gangsta - wannabe , the strip explores issues involving African American culture and American politics . When McGruder 's father accepted a job with the National Transportation Safety Board , McGruder moved to Columbia , Maryland at age six with his parents and his older brother Dedric . He attended a Jesuit school from grades two to nine , followed by public high school at Oakland Mills High School and the University of Maryland , from which he graduated with a degree in African American Studies . The Boondocks debuted in the campus newspaper , The Diamondback , in late 1997 , under its then - editor , Jayson Blair . McGruder created the comic while working at the Presentation Graphics Lab on campus . At the time , he was also a DJ on the " Soul Controllers Mix Show " on WMUC . McGruder presently lives in Los Angeles , California , where his projects include the Boondocks animated TV series . He is also the co - author , with Reginald Hudlin , of a 2004 graphic novel , Birth of a Nation , drawn by cartoonist Kyle Baker , and a frequent public speaker on political and cultural issues . The content of McGruder 's comic strip has often come under fire for being politically left - wing and occasionally risque , leading to its being published in the op - ed section of many newspapers . For example , a strip making fun of BET 's rap videos , some of which rely on lewd female gyrations , and a strip mocking Whitney Houston 's drug problems were pulled out of circulation for emphasizing her buttocks and marijuana use , even though done as parody . McGruder has also received hate mail for his unflattering portrayal of white racism , and garnered significant attention after the September 11 , 2001 attacks with a series of strips in which Huey calls a government tipline to report Ronald Reagan for funding terrorism . Soon after , he " censored " several strips by featuring a talking patriotic yellow ribbon and a flag instead of the usual cast . Several of his strips have been briefly pulled from prominent publications . The Post also declined to run " Can a Nigga Get a Job ? " , which had black contestants compete on a reality TV show to work for Russell Simmons , only to find that all the contestants were rude and lazy . This unflattering portrayal drew the ire of many in the African - American community . Conservative black commentator Larry Elder took exception to one strip in which Huey and Caesar discuss the " Most Embarrassing Black Person of the Year Awards " , which they dub the " Elder " . Elder published an opinion piece in which he created the " McGruders " to the same effect , naming liberal commentators and including five quotes from McGruder , to whom Elder awarded his fictional award . McGruder also amassed controversy following his visit with Fidel Castro in Cuba , after being requested by California Congresswoman Barbara Lee to make the 