Aaron Benjamin Sorkin ( born June 9 1961 ) is an American screenwriter , producer and playwright . After graduating from Syracuse University with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in Musical Theatre in 1983 , Sorkin spent much of the 1980s in New York as a struggling , largely unemployed actor . He found his passion in writing plays however , and quickly established himself as a young promising playwright . His stageplay A Few Good Men caught the attention of Hollywood producer David Brown , who bought the film rights before the play even premiered . Castle Rock Entertainment hired Sorkin to adapt A Few Good Men for the big screen . The movie , directed by Rob Reiner , became a box office success . Sorkin spent the early 1990s writing two other screenplays at Castle Rock for the films Malice and The American President . In the mid - 1990s he worked as a script doctor on films such as Schindler 's List and Bulworth . In 1998 his television career began when he created the TV comedy series Sports Night for the ABC network . Sports Night 's second season was its last , and in 1999 overlapped with the debut of Sorkin 's next TV series , the multiple - Emmy - award - winning political drama The West Wing , this time for the NBC network . He departed from The West Wing at the end of its fourth season in 2003 , after which it continued three more seasons without him . He returned to television in 2006 with a dramedy called Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip , about the backstage drama at a late night sketch comedy show , once again for the NBC network . While Sorkin 's return was met with high expectations and a lot of early online buzz before Studio 60 's premiere , NBC did not renew it after its first season in which it suffered from low ratings and negative reception in the press and on the Internet . His most recent feature film screenplay is Charlie Wilson 's War , which is set to open in movie theaters on Christmas Day 2007 . After more than a decade away from the theatre , Sorkin returned to adapt for the stage his screenplay The Farnsworth Invention , which started a workshop run at La Jolla Playhouse in February 2007 and which is slated to open on Broadway in November of 2007 . He has battled with a cocaine addiction for many years , but after a highly publicized arrest he received treatment in a drug diversion program and rid himself of the drug dependence . In television , Sorkin is known as a controlling writer , who rarely shares the job of penning the teleplays with other writers . His writing staff are more likely to do research and come up with stories for him to tell . His trademark is writing rapid - fire dialogue and extended soliloquies , and in television , this penchant is complemented by frequent collaborator Thomas Schlamme 's characteristic visual technique called the " Walk and Talk " . 5.2 Morris v. Castle Rock Entertainment , Inc . Sorkin was born in the borough of Manhattan in New York City to Jewish parents , and was raised in the wealthy suburb of Scarsdale , New York . Sorkin 's mother was a school teacher and his father a lawyer ; he had an older sister and brother who both went on to become lawyers . Sorkin took an 