Abay Ibrahim Qunanbayuli ( Kazak : Абай ( Ибраһим ) Құнанбайұлы , Russian : Абай Ибрагим Кунанбаев. ) ( August 10 , 1845 - July 5 , 1904 ) was a Kazakh poet , composer , and philosopher . Abay was born on Shinghis Mountain ( in today 's East Kazakhstan Province ) , the son of Qunanbay and Uljan , Qunanbay 's second wife . They named him Ibrahim , but because of his brightness , he soon was given the nickname " Abay " , ( meaning " careful " ) a name that stuck for the rest of his lfe . His father 's economic status enabled the boy to attend a Russian school in his youth , but only after he had already spent some years studying at a madrash under Mullah Ahmet Ryza . At his school in Semipalatinsk , Abai encountered the writings of Mikhail Lermontov and Aleksandr Pushkin . Abay 's main contribution to Kazakh culture and folklore lies in his poetry , which expresses great nationalism and grew out of Kazakh folk culture . Before him , most Kazakh poetry was oral , echoing the nomadic habits of the people of the Kazakh steppes . During Abai 's lifetime , however , a number of important socio - political and socio - economic changes occurred . Russian influence continued to grow in Kazakhstan , resulting in greater educational possibilities as well as exposure to a number of different philosophies , whether Russian , Western , or Asian . Abay Qunanbayuli steeped himself in the cultural and philosophical history of these newly - opened geographies . In this sense , Abai 's creative poetry affected the philosophical thinking of educated Kazakhs . Abay also translated into Kazakh the works of Russian and European authors , mostly for the first time . Contemporary Kazakhstani images of Abay generally depict him in full traditional dress , holding a dombra , the Kazakh national instrument . Today , Kazakhs revere Abai as one of the first folk heroes to enter into the national consciousness of his people . Kazakh State University in Almaty is named after Abai , so is one of the main avenues in the city . Among Abay 's students was the historian and poet Shekerim Qudaiberdiuli ( 1858 - 1931 ) . Abay is the subject of a novel by Mukhtar Auezov . 