Abdurakhman Genazovich Avtorkhanov , also known by the pen name Alexander Uralov , ( Chechen : Абдурахман Геназович Авторханов ) ( October 23 , 1908 - April 24 , 1997 ) was a Chechen historian , nationalist , and Soviet - era dissident . Abdurakhman was born on October 23 , 1908 in the village of Laha - Nevri , Chechnya , and he joined the Communist Party in 1927 . He graduated from the Moscow Institute of Red Professors in 1937 , specializing in Russian history , and he served as a civil servant in the Grozny office of the propaganda department of the Central Committee of the CPSU and had steadily worked up through the Communist Party apparatus until his opposition to kolkhozes , or collective farms in non - Russian areas , made him a prime target for the purges . Abdurakhman was arrested by NKVD in 1937 and sent without trial for five years to Siberia . He joined the abortive 1943 Chechen uprising , and fled to Germany by the end of that year to found the Institute for the Study of the USSR in Munich . The uprising would later serve as a pretext for forced deportations of most Chechens to Central Asia in February 1944 . A fervent anticommunist , Abdurakhman served as a professor of political science at the U.S. Army Intelligence Center at Oberammergau , and he helped organize Radio Free Europe / Radio Liberty in 1951 . Abdurakhman 's first book , The Reign of Stalin , published in London in 1953 , described the growth of Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin 's reign of terror after the death of Sergey Kirov . He also argued that Leon Trotsky and Nikolai Bukharin should have run the Party after Lenin 's death . His most famous book , Stalin and the Soviet Communist Party is regarded as a primary source for the political background on Stalin 's rise to power . And in his book Beria 's Plot , Abdurakhman was one of the first authors to claim that Stalin had been murdered by Lavrentiy Beria . A few months before the collapse of the Soviet Union , Abdurakhman was granted honorary citizenship by the Chechen - Ingush ASSR in 1991 - although his name and legacy had been discredited in the Soviet Union during his exile , Abdurakhman and his writings drew widespread admiration and sympathies from many Chechen people and Ingush people . During the time of the First Chechen War he maintained a correspondence with Chechen President Dzokhar Dudayev . He also called for peace negotiations with the Russians during this time , but he always set Chechnya 's political independence as any precondition for talks . The name of the power — NKVD — MVD — MGB . The Stalin regime is based not on Soviets , Party ideals , the power of the Political Bureau , Stalin’s personality , but the organization and the technique of the Soviet political police where Stalin plays the role of the first policeman . To tell that NKVD is a state secret police — means to tell nothing to the point . Intelligence Service is also a secret police , but in the eyes of the Britons its existence is as natural as the Health Ministry . To tell that NKVD is a body of mass inquisition also means to tell nothing to the point , because Gestapo also was a mass inquisition , although its chief Himmler — would not have fit a sergeant of the State Security Service . 