Adam Bernard Mickiewicz ( pronounced : ; Belarusian : Адам Міцкевіч ; Lithuanian : Adomas Bernardas Mickevičius ; December 24 1798 – November 26 1855 ) is one of the best - known Polish poets and writers , considered the greatest Polish Romantic poet of the 19th century , alongside Zygmunt Krasiński , Juliusz Słowacki ( the Three Bards ) and Cyprian Kamil Norwid . Mickiewicz was born at the estate of his uncle in Zaosie near Navahrudak ( Polish : Nowogródek , Belarusian : Навагрудак , Lithuanian : Naugardukas , Russian : Новогрудок ) of the Russian Empire ( formerly in Polish - Lithuanian Commonwealth , now in Belarus ) . His father , Mikołaj Mickiewicz , belonged to the szlachta ( Polish - Lithuanian Commonwealth nobility , coat of arms Poraj ) . The poet was educated at the University of Vilnius . There he got involved with a secret Polish - Lithuanian freedom organization . Following his studies he worked as a tutor in a regional school in Kaunas in 1819 - 1823 . In 1823 Mickiewicz was arrested and put under investigation for his political activities ( membership in Filomaci ) . Subsequently he was banished to live in central Russia . He had already published two small volumes of miscellaneous poetry at Vilnius , which had been favorably received by the Slavic public , and on his arrival at St. Petersburg found himself welcomed into the leading literary circles , where he became a great favorite both for his agreeable manners and his extraordinary talent of improvisation . In 1825 he visited the Crimea , which inspired a collection of sonnets ( Sonety Krymskie — The Crimean Sonnets ) with their admirably elegant rhythm and rich Oriental coloring . The most beautiful are " The Storm , " " Bakhchisaray , " and " The Grave of Countess Potocka " . Crimea caught the eye of another famous contemporary poet , Alexander Pushkin , who wrote about it in " The Fountain of Bakhchisarai " two years before Mickiewicz . Mickiewicz 's family coat - of - arms , Poraj . In 1828 appeared his Konrad Wallenrod , a narrative poem describing the battles of the Teutonic Knights with the heathen Lithuanians . In it , under a thin veil , Mickiewicz represented the sanguinary passages of arms and burning hatred which had characterized the long feuds of the Russians and Poles . The objects of the poem , though obvious to many , escaped the Russian censors , and the poem was allowed to be published , complete with the telling motto , adapted from Machiavelli : " Dovete adunque sapere come sono duo generazioni da combattere - bisogna essere volpe e leone " — " Ye shall know that there are two ways of fighting - you must be a fox and a lion. " . This striking long poem contains at least two revered subsections including Alpuhara Ballad . After a five year exile in Russia the poet obtained the permit to travel ; he had secretly made up his mind never to return to that country , or to his native land so long as it remained under the government of Imperial Russia . Wending his way to Weimar , he there made the acquaintance of Goethe , who received him cordially , and , pursuing his journey through Germany , he entered Italy by the Splügen Pass , visited Milan , Venice and Florence , and finally established his residence in Rome . There he wrote the third part of 