Adelaide Crapsey ( September 9 , 1878–October 8 , 1914 ) , was an American poet . Born in Brooklyn , New York , she was raised in Rochester , New York , daughter of Episcopal priest Algernon Sidney Crapsey , who had been transferred from New York City to Rochester , and Adelaide T. Crapsey . She attended public school in Rochester , and then Kemper Hall , an Episcopal girls ' preparatory school in Kenosha , Wisconsin , before entering Vassar College in Poughkeepsie , New York , graduating in 1901 . That same year her sister Emily died , and Adelaide delayed starting her teaching career for a year . In 1902 she took a position at Kemper Hall , where she taught until 1904 . She then spent a year at the School of Classical Studies at the American Academy in Rome . In the years before her death , she wrote much of the verse on which her reputation rests . Her interest in rhythm and meter led her to create a variation on the cinquain ( or quintain ) , a 5 - line form of 22 syllables influenced by the Japanese haiku and tanka . Her cinquain has a generally iambic meter and consists of 2 syllables in the first and last lines and 4 , 6 and 8 syllables in the middle three lines . Adelaide Crapsey also formulated the established epigram into a new form couplet , a poem of two rhyming lines of ten syllables with an integral title . An example of this grammatical poem is her ' On Seeing Weather - Beaten Trees ' . Crapsey died of tuberculosis in Rochester on October 8 , 1914 . The following year Claude Bragdon published Verses , a posthumous selection of her cinquains and other verse forms . Revised editions were published in 1922 and 1934 and contain earlier unpublished work . Also published posthumously in 1918 was the unfinished A Study in English Metrics , a work she began during a 3 - year stay in Europe while trying to recover from the illness that was eventually diagnosed as tuberculosis . She is buried in Mt. Hope Cemetery in Rochester , and her work is housed at the University of Rochester Library archives . Poet Carl Sandburg was partly responsible for the continued interest in the cinquain and in keeping Crapsey from obscurity through his poem " Adelaide Crapsey " . 