Agnes Strickland ( 19 August , 1796 – 8 July , 1874 ) was an English historical writer . The daughter of Thomas Strickland of Reydon Hall , Suffolk , Agnes was educated by her father , and began her literary career with a poem , Worcester Field , followed by The Seven Ages of Woman and Demetrius . Abandoning poetry , she next produced , among others , Historical Tales of Illustrious British Children ( 1833 ) , The Pilgrims of Walsingham ( 1835 ) , Tales and Stories from History ( 1836 ) . Her chief works , however , are Lives of the Queens of England from the Norman Conquest , and Lives of the Queens of Scotland , and English Princesses , etc. ( 8 vols. , 1850 - 1859 ) , Lives of the Bachelor Kings of England ( 1861 ) , and Letters of Mary Queen of Scots , in some of which she was assisted by her sister Elizabeth . Strickland 's researches were laborious and conscientious , and she remains a useful source , but she failed to exercise the level of objectivity that a modern historian would aspire to . Her style is considered mediocre , by some , but writing should be compared only directly to that of the contemporaries of the time . Most of the Strickland sisters ' historical research and writing was actually done by Elizabeth . Elizabeth however eschewed all publicity and Agnes was put forward as authoress . Lives of the Queens of England . The Letters of Mary Queen of Scots . Lives of the Queens of Scotland and English Princesses Connected with the Regal Succession of Great Britain . Lives of the Bachelor Kings of England . The Lives of the Seven Bishops Committed to the Tower in 1688 . Enriched and Illustrated with Personal Letters , Now First Published , from the Bodleian Library . Lives of the Tudor Princesses , Including Lady Jane Gray and Her Sisters . Lives of the Last Four Princesses of the Royal House of Stuart . The Moss - House : In Which Many of the Works of Nature Are Rendered a Source of Amusement to Children . The Aviary ; Or , An Agreeable Visit . Intended for Children . The Use of Sight : Or , I Wish I Were Julia : Intended for the Amusement and Instruction of Children . The Little Tradesman , or , A Peep into English Industry . The Young Emigrant . The Rival Crusoes , or , The Shipwreck : Also A Voyage to Norway ; and The Fisherman 's Cottage : Founded on Facts . The Juvenile Forget Me Not ; Or , Cabinet of Entertainment and Instruction . Historic Tales of Illustrious British Children . Tales of the School Room . Tales and Stories From History . British Authors of the Nineteenth Century H. W. Wilson Company , New York , 1936 . This article incorporates public domain text from : Cousin , John William ( 1910 ) . A Short Biographical Dictionary of English Literature . London , J. M. Dent & sons ; New York , E. P. Dutton . 