Sheikh Ahmed Hussein Deedat ( July 1 , 1918 - August 8 , 2005 ) , was a Muslim scholar of Comparative religion , an author , lecturer , and an orator . He was best known for witty inter - religious public debates.His writings have been criticized as fundamentalist , antisemitic , anti - Christian and anti - Hindu , though his supporters deny this . What differentiated Deedat 's approach from his contemporaries , apart from eloquence in English language , was that he would not only use references from the Qur'an and the Hadith , but also use his intensive knowledge of the Bible and Holy scriptures . Ahmed Deedat was born in Surat , India in 1918 . His father had emigrated to South Africa shortly after the birth of Ahmed Deedat . At the age of 9 , Deedat went to join his father in what is now known as Kwazulu - Natal . His mother died few months after Deedat left for South Africa . Applying himself with diligence to his studies , Deedat was able to overcome the language barrier and excel in school , getting promotions until he completed standard 6 . But had to start working at the age of 16 . In 1936 , while working as a furniture salesman Deedat came across missionaries at a Christian seminary on the Natal South Coast . In between the deep racial divides , the religious ideology was used by the authorities to numb and pacify the masses . This is considered to be a major influence on Deedat 's interest in comparative religions . Another inspiration on his intellectual development came from the book " Truth Revealed " by Rahmatullah Kairanvi on the concept of holding inter - religious public debates . The book was written especially in response to the missionary efforts of Reverend C.C.P Fonder , the head of the Christian Mission of India , in 1864 . Deedat 's first lecture , entitled " Muhammad : Messenger of Peace , " was delivered in 1942 to an audience of 15 people at a Durban movie theater . Within a short space of time , the numbers grew and people crossed the racial divides which were then prevalent in apartheid South Africa , to listen to him , and to participate in the questions and answers sessions which followed his lectures . With the increased success , Deedat engaged into broader range of activities over the next three decades . He conducted classes on Bible studies and conducted numerous lectures . Da`wah ( inviting people towards Islam ) became the dominant factor of his life , with the audiences at his lectures reaching forty thousand . In 1957 , Deedat , together with two of his friends , founded the Islamic Propagation Centre International ( IPCI ) and remained its president until 1996 . According to David Westerlund , Deedat 's aimed at providing Muslims with theological tools for defending themselves against the intense missionary strivings of many Christian denominations . He used English instead of Arabic or any other language to get his message across to Muslim minorities in the western world . Although not fluent in biblical languages , Deedat was often known to reference verses in their Hebrew , Greek , and Roman origins in order to clarify what he felt were misconceptions resulting from sequential translations in the Christian religion . In 1986 , he visited Saudi Arabia for a conference , and in his first television interview , became notable in the Arab world with 