Ahmad Abdullāh al - Masdūsī ( 1905 - 1968 ) احمد عبدالله المسدوسى was born in 1905 in Mahboobnagar , India in an Arab family BaMasdoos which was migrated to Deccan from Hazrmout ( Hadhrmout ) Yemen . His father Musdoos Bin Abdullah was a highly respected emir of Bamusdoos tribe as well as the qazi ( cleric / magistrate ) , Imam and leader . He was a poet , honest and humble man , loved by one all . After the migration , he selected Mahboobnagar for his people , bought some land near the district jail , and constructed a mosque and then houses for all of his near and dear . He had two daughters and three sons Ali Masdoosi , Ahmed Abdullah Masdusi , and Salam Masdoosi . Ali Al musdoosi migrated back to Yemen in his early days , to fight for the Arab land during early 1900s . Ahmed Abdullah Al Musdoosi studied and practiced law in the then Hyderabad . He was an activist who later gave up the lawyer profession . He was a close colleague to Nawab Bahadur Yar Jung , and one of the executive members of the then Majlis - e - ittehad ul muslimeen . In 1949 he migrated to Pakistan . He had written few but competent books and served as Professor of Law at Karachi University . Completed secondary education in Mahboobnagar , and shifted to Dar - ul - uloom Hight school Hyderabad . Where Qayed - e - Millat Nawab Bahadur Yar Jung was his classmate . After completion of SSC , he joined Osmania University , where he got the companionship of famous scholars Dr. Mohammed Hameedullah and Dr. Raziuddin Siddiqui . He got the Gold Medal from the Osmania University on thesis on the topic of “Uswa - e - Hasana” ( On the prophet ) . After completing LLB from Jamia Osmania , started the profession actively at Mahboobnagar . He had bought the vast villa for his residence . After his migration to Pakistan , the building and its campus was used for “Gandhi Road High School” . He was very active in social welfare , and community improvement activities . He was one of the founders of “Anjuman Islah Maashira” in 1925 . He was president of “Anjuman Taraqee Taleem” with Muneeruddin Advocate as its Secretary and in 1938 when Dr Sir Mohammed Iqbal expired , he organized a big seminar and remembrance meeting with a public assembly . It was presided by District collector Dr. Mir siadat Ali Khan . This was the beginning of his political career . Although he was simultaneously actively involved in national movements , in 1938 he joined Majlis due to his old relationship with Nawab Bahadur Yar Jung . He had been active in Tahreek - e - Khilafat , and had organized a national level seminar and public speeches on Khilafat Movement in Mahbubngar . He attended the Khilafat committee meeting at Lahore in 1929 with his colleague Nawab Mir Ahmed Ali Khan , the former Home minister . He joined Malis - e - Ittehad - ul - Muslimeen and as a member of advisory board he helped Nawab Bahadur Yar Jung in getting Majlis close to Muslim League . In 1939 , when Idara - e - Adabiyat - e - Urdu decided to setup their branch at Mahaboob nagar , he was elected as its president in the summit which was presided by the District Magistrate Mr Taqi Bilgrami . His one of the great and lasting 