In this Japanese name , the family name is Yosano . 7 December 1878 - 29 May 1942 ) was the pen - name of a Japanese author , poet , pioneering feminist , pacifist , and social reformer , active in late Meiji period , Taisho period and early Showa period Japan . Her real name was Yosano Shiyo . She is one of the most famous , and most controversial , post - classical woman poets of Japan . Yosano was born the daughter of a rich merchant in Sakai , Osaka . From early childhood , she was fond of reading literary works while she helped her family business . When she was a high school student , she began to subscribe to the poetry magazine Myōjō ( Bright Star ) , and she became one of its most important contributors . Myōjō’s editor , Yosano Tekkan , taught her tanka poetry and sometimes visited her in Sakai . Although Tekkan was married , the two authors fell in love and started a new life together in the suburb of Tokyo . Tekkan eventually divorced his wife and married Yosano in 1901 . In 1901 , Yosano brought out her first volume of tanka , Midaregami ( Tangled Hair ) , which contained 400 poems and was very well received by literary critics . Her first book , which overshadows everything else she wrote , brought a passionate individualism to traditional tanka poetry , unlike any other work of the late Meiji period . She followed this with twenty more waka anthologies over the course of her career , including Koigoromo ( Robe of Love ) and Maihime ( Dancer ) . Her husband Tekkan was also a poet , but he soon realized that Yosano 's abilities were far greater than his , and he decided to concentrate his energies on helping her . Yosano 's poem Kimi Shinitamou koto nakare ( 君死にたもうこと勿れ , Thou Shalt Not Die ) , addressed to her brother , was published in Myōjō during the height of the Russo - Japanese War and was tremendously popular . Made into a song , it was used as a mild form of anti - war protest , as the number of Japanese casualties from the bloody Siege of Port Arthur became public . During the Taisho period , Yosano turned her attention to social commentary , with Hito obyobi Onna to shite ( As a Human and as a Woman ) , Gekido no Naka o Iku｡ ( Going through Turbulent Times ) and her autobiography Akarumi e ( To the Light ) . Her commentaries tended to criticize Japan 's growing militarism , and also promoted her feminist viewpoints . Yosano founded a coeducational school , the Bunka Gakuin ( Institute of Culture ) , together with Nishimura Isaku , Kawasaki Natsu and others , and became its first dean and chief lecturer . She helped many aspiring writers gain a foothold into the literary world . She was a strong advocate of women 's education all of her life . She also translated the Japanese classics into the modern Japanese language , including the Shinyaku Genji Monogatari ( Newly Translated Tale of Genji ) and Shinyaku Eiga Monogatari ( Newly Translated Tale of Flowering Fortunes ) . Her final work , Shin Man'yōshū ( New Man'yōshū , 1937 - 1939 ) was a compilation of 26,783 poems by 6,675 contributors over a 60 year period . Yosano died of a stroke in 1942 , at the age of 63 . 