Akinpelu Obisesan ( 1889 - 1963 ) was a Nigerian diarist , businessman and politician . He was among a class of educated elites in the early twentieth century who kept private records of their activities and who were also speakers at formal events . Akinpelu 's records from 1920 - 1960 became an important source for elite activities during the colonial era and is used by a few scholars on predefined topics varying from cultural , political and social history of Ibadan and western Nigeria . Included in his diaries , were stories about Salami Agbaje , one of the wealthiest Ibadan citizens of his time and socio - political matters of the era . Salami Agbaje was the first individual to own a two story house built from cement and the first to own a car in Ibadan . Akinpelu and other elites also engaged in discussions and wrote about major events of the era , topics on the Lagos elites and defense of his family 's land interests were major issues written and discussed about . Obisesan was born in Ibadan to the family of an elephant hunter : Aperin Obisesan and a slave woman . His father was one of the early defenders of Ibadan against the Ijebu incursions of the late nineteenth century . He also acquired a vast forest during the period . The missionary school teachers were educated and frequently wrote about their activities in journals . One of the missionaries was Daniel Olubi , an early Christian convert who was Obisesan 's teacher in 1896 , the first year of his formal education . Olubi was a mentor to Obisesan and guided him in his studies . Obisesan 's impetus to keep a journal could have been established while attending the missionary schools . After completing his studies , he started work at the office of the British resident in Ibadan , but later moved to Lagos to work with the railway authority . In 1913 , he returned to Ibadan and a year later , he was appointed as the caretaker and secretary of his family 's land holdings . His father had used his vast forest to farm and transformed it into a productive Cocoa growing field . However , the ownership of the land was disputed , as other citizens laid claims to the land . In 1914 , he bought in first diary , speculatively , he may have used his diary as a means to record events on the family 's farm business or for record keeping . Before and after becoming the secretary of his family 's farm interests , Obisesan Akinpelu was a mercantile clerk and produce buyer . While in Ibadan , he supplemented his income by working for the Paterson Zochonis group . He later became a produce buyer of Cocoa . For a span of 30 years , he was president of the Ibadan Cooperative Produce Marketing Society . As leader of the cooperative produce society , he was an important voice against foul tactics used by merchant middlemen and Cocoa exporters . He also became the pioneer chairman of the Cooperative Bank of Ibadan . A bank created to serve the needs of cooperative societies in the region . Obisesan was educated in an environment were literary skills was seen as a sign of intellectual fineness and with most missionaries situated in Lagos and Abeokuta , the school age residents of the two cities had a fast start in literacy and honing their writing skills . He also believed literacy could 