Alain de Botton , ( born 20 December 1969 in Zurich , Switzerland ) is a writer and television producer who lives in London and aims to make philosophy relevant to everyday life . Alain 's family originates from a small Castilian town of Boton ( now vanished ) on the Spanish peninsula . They left in 1492 , along with the rest of the Sephardic Jewish community , and eventually settled in Alexandria , Egypt , where de Botton 's father was born . He has one sister , Miel , who is a psychologist in Paris . He currently lives in Hammersmith , West London , with his wife Charlotte , whom he married in 2003 , and their sons Samuel and Saul . He is the only son of Gilbert de Botton , art collector and financier who founded Global Asset Management and his first wife , Jacqueline Burgauer . De Botton spent the first eight years of his life in Switzerland , where he learned to speak French and German . He was sent to boarding school at Harrow , where he learned to speak English . His family later moved to London when he was 12 . He was educated at the Dragon School in Oxford and Harrow School in London . He achieved a double starred first in history and philosophy at Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge ( 1988–1991 ) , and completed his masters degree in philosophy at King 's College London ( 1991–1992 ) . He began a Ph.D in French philosophy at Harvard , but gave up research to write fiction . He was a PhD candidate at King 's College , London . De Botton owns and helps run his own production company , Seneca Productions , which regularly broadcasts television documentaries based on his works . De Botton has written essayistic books , which refer both to his own experiences and ideas interwoven with those of artists , philosophers , and thinkers . It is a style of writing that has been referred to as a " philosophy of everyday life. " . His books are published in 20 languages . In 1993 , his first novel , Essays In Love ( titled On Love in the US ) , analyzed the process of falling in and out of love . The style of the book was unusual , because it mixed elements of a novel together with reflections and analyzes normally found in a piece of non - fiction . He did n't , however , receive world - wide recognition until after the publication of his first non - fiction work , How Proust Can Change Your Life , in 1997 . The book was based on the life and works of Marcel Proust . It is a mixture of a " self - help " envelope within which lies an ironically shallow response to one of the most revered but unread books in the Western canon . It was a bestseller in the US and UK . It was followed by The Consolations of Philosophy . Though sometimes described as works of popularisation , these two books were attempts to develop original ideas about friendship , art , envy , desire , and inadequacy for example , with the help of thoughts of other thinkers . The title of this book is a reference to Boethius 's Consolation of Philosophy , in which philosophy appears as an allegorical figure to Boethius to offer him consolation before he faces his impending execution . In The Consolations 