Sir Alan Ayckbourn CBE ( born April 12 , 1939 ) is a popular and prolific English playwright . He is frequently cited as the second most - performed English language playwright , after William Shakespeare . Ayckbourn was born in Hampstead , London . His mother Irene Worley was a writer of short stories who published successfully under the name of " Mary James " . His father , Irene 's second husband Horace Ayckbourn , was a distinguished orchestral violinist , at one time deputy leader of the London Symphony Orchestra . His parents , who separated shortly after World War II , never formally married , and Ayckbourn 's mother divorced her first husband in order to marry again in 1948 . Ayckbourn wrote his first play at Wisborough Lodge prep school when he was about 10 . While attending prep school as a boarder his mother wrote to him to tell him she was getting married to Cecil Pye , who was a bank manager , and when he was at home for the holidays his new family consisted of his mother , his stepfather and Christopher , his stepfather 's son by an earlier marriage . It seems Cecil and Irene were not a happy couple . Paul Allen has compared characters and themes in Ayckbourn 's mature plays with his childhood experience of several unconventional relationships and an unhappy marriage . He attended Haileybury , and while studying there he toured Europe and America with the school Shakespeare company . In 1957 , Ayckbourn married his first wife Christine Roland , together having two sons , Steven and Philip . Alan’s second marriage was to Heather Stoney in 1997 . On leaving school at 17 his theatrical career started immediately , with an introduction to Sir Donald Wolfit by his French master . Ayckbourn joined Wolfit on tour as an assistant stage manager and actor for three weeks . In 1957 , Ayckbourn employed by the director Stephen Joseph as an acting stage manager ( a stage manager with acting roles ) at the Library Theatre , Scarborough . In 1959 he played Stanley in Harold Pinter 's self - directed second production of The Birthday Party . After Ronnie Barker played Lord Slingsby - Craddock in the London production of Ayckbourn 's Mr Whatnot in 1964 , Ayckbourn collaborated on the scripts of Barker 's television series for LWT Hark at Barker ( in which Barker played Lord Rustless ) . Ayckbourn used the pseudonym " Peter Caulfield " because he was under exclusive contract to the BBC at the time . The London production of another early play , Relatively Speaking in 1967 helped to launch Richard Briers ' career , and also featured Michael Hordern and Celia Johnson . Ayckbourn has written and produced seventy full - length plays in Scarborough and London and is the artistic director of the Stephen Joseph Theatre in Scarborough . All but four of his plays have received their first performance at this theatre . More than 40 have subsequently been produced in the West End , at the Royal National Theatre or by the Royal Shakespeare Company since his first hit Relatively Speaking opened at the Duke of York 's Theatre in 1967 . Major successes include Absurd Person Singular , The Norman Conquests trilogy , Bedroom Farce , Just Between Ourselves , A Chorus Of Disapproval , Woman In Mind , A Small Family Business , Man Of The Moment and House & Garden . His plays have won numerous awards , including 