Albert Butz ( 1849 – 1905 ) Swiss born inventor and businessman who immigrated to the USA in the 1850s and founded the Butz Thermo - electric Regulator Company which , through a series of re - organizations , name changes and mergers , has become Honeywell , Incorporated . In 1857 at 8 years of age when he emigrated ( assumed with his family ) to the United States . At age 16 , he enlisted in the Union Army , serving in " Wisconsin 's 47th Infantry " - for the last six months of the conflict ; the company did not see combat and no event of note took place . In 1881 he appeared as a resident of Saint Paul , Minnesota . In 1884 , Butz and partner R.J. Mendenhall formed a company called The Butz and Mendenhall Hand Grenade Fire Extinguisher Company . No documentation to support their product being sold - let alone advertised or manufactured . The damper flapper could control a coal fire furnace by operating the furnace damper from a thermostat . In 1885 , Butz decided to patent his heat controller and establish a company to make and sell it . It is believed that Mendenhall urged Butz to patent , manufacture and sell the damper flapper . The patent attorneys that assisted Butz in preparing the application were Amasa Paul , Rufus Sanford , and T. Dwight Mervin . A group of investors , known as Hay & Company Investors and Business Brokers provided Butz with the capital required to incorporate Butz Thermoelecric Regulator Company on April 23 , 1886 . May 4 , 1886 , Butz 's patent was granted . It is not known if any sales of his product occurred - - no recorded documentation exist to support sales . In 1888 , Butz abandoned his business and moved to Chicago . The law firm retained the Butz patents . It is not known why Butz left Minneapolis nor why he transferred his patents to the law firm . In 1888 , Butz 's attorneys had renamed the business the Consolidated Temperature Controlling Company . Early in the year 1892 , the management of the Consolidated Temperature Controlling Company renamed the company the Electric Thermostat Company . On August 16 1892 , the stockholders of the Electric Thermostat Company ' agreed to sell an extensive list of patents to W.R. Sweatt for the sum of $1.00 . On October 5 1892 , the directors changed the name to the Electric Heat Regulator Company and recapitalized it and elected William Sweatt as both Secretary and Treasurer . The stockholders agreed to accept the assets of the Electric Thermostat Company and to assume the liabilities of Sweatt as a trustee . In 1912 the company was renamed The Minneapolis Heat Regulator Company . In 1927 the Minneapolis Heat Regulator Company and Honeywell Heating Specialties Company merged to form the Minneapolis - Honeywell Regulator Company . In 1964 the corporate name was changed to Honeywell Inc . 