Aldous Leonard Huxley ( July 26 , 1894 – November 22 , 1963 ) was an English writer and one of the most prominent members of the famous Huxley family . He spent the latter part of his life in the United States , living in Los Angeles from 1937 until his death in 1963 . Best known for his novels and wide - ranging output of essays , he also published short stories , poetry , travel writing , and film stories and scripts . Through his novels and essays Huxley functioned as an examiner and sometimes critic of social mores , norms and ideals . Huxley was a humanist but was also interested towards the end of his life in spiritual subjects such as parapsychology and philosophical mysticism . By the end of his life Huxley was considered , in some academic circles , a leader of modern thought and an intellectual of the highest rank . Aldous Huxley was born in Godalming , Surrey , England . He was the son of the writer and professional herbalist Leonard Huxley by his first wife , Julia Arnold ; and grandson of Thomas Henry Huxley , one of the most prominent English naturalists of the 19th century , a man known as " Darwin 's Bulldog. " . His brother Julian Huxley was also a noted biologist . Huxley began his learning in his father 's well - equipped botanical laboratory , then continued in a school named Hillside . His teacher was his mother who supervised him for several years until she became terminally ill . After Hillside , he was educated at Eton College . Huxley 's mother died in 1908 , when he was fourteen . Three years later he suffered an illness ( keratitis punctata ) which " left practically blind for two to three years " . Aldous 's near - blindness disqualified him from service in World War I . Once his eyesight recovered sufficiently , he was able to study English literature at Balliol College , Oxford . He graduated in 1916 with First Class Honours . Following his education at Balliol , Huxley was financially indebted to his father and had to earn a living . He taught French for a year at Eton , where Eric Blair ( later known by the pen name George Orwell ) was among his pupils , but was remembered by another as an incompetent and hopeless teacher who couldn’t keep discipline . For a short while in 1918 , he was employed acquiring provisions at the Air Ministry . But never desiring a career in administration ( or in business ) , Huxley 's lack of inherited means propelled him into applied literary work . Huxley completed his first ( unpublished ) novel at the age of seventeen and began writing seriously in his early twenties . His earlier work includes important novels on the dehumanizing aspects of scientific progress , most famously Brave New World , and on pacifist themes ( for example , Eyeless in Gaza ) . In Brave New World Huxley portrays a society operating on the principles of mass production and Pavlovian conditioning . The religions of our day have been replaced by the worship of Henry Ford , marking their calendars in the year of Ford beginning in 1908 when he released his first automobile . Huxley was strongly influenced by F. Matthias Alexander and included him as a character in Eyeless in Gaza . During World War I , Huxley spent much of his time at Garsington 