Aleksandr Ivanovich Kuprin ( Александр Иванович Куприн , September 7 , 1870 ( August 26 , 1870 OS ) in the town of Narovchat in the Penza Oblast - August 25 , 1938 in Leningrad ) was a Russian writer , pilot , explorer and adventurer whose best known novellas include Moloch ( 1896 ) , Olesya ( 1898 ) , The Duel ( 1905 ) , Junior Captain Rybnikov ( 1906 ) , Emerald ( 1907 ) , and The Garnet Bracelet ( 1911 ) . Vladimir Nabokov styled him Russian Kipling for his stories about pathetic adventure - seekers , who are often " neurotic and vulnerable. " . Kuprin was a son of a Tatar princess who , like many other nobles in Russia , had lost most of its wealth in the 19th century . Kuprin received his education in the 2nd Cadet Corps and the Alexander Military School , spending a total of ten years in these elite military institutions . His first short story was published in 1889 in a satirical periodical . Kuprin left military service in 1894 , after which he tried his hand at all sorts of jobs , including provincial journalism , dental care , land surveying , acting , circus performer , church singer , doctor , hunter , fisher , etc. Reportedly , " all of these were subsequently reflected in his fiction. " . His first essays were published in Kiev in two collections , but he made his name as a writer in 1896 with the short story Moloch.Reportedly , " although he lived in an age when writers were carried away by literary experiments , Kuprin did not seek innovation and wrote only about the things he himself had experienced and his heroes are the next generation after Chekhov 's pessimists. " . His early short stories , including several on horses and other animals , seethe with love of life in all its manifestations . Kuprin 's popularity spread quickly after Leo Tolstoy had acclaimed him as a true successor to Chekhov . The spy story Junior Captain Rybnikov ( 1906 ) has been called the pinnacle of his art . Subsequently he paid less and less interest to literature , sharing his time between pubs and brothels . His novel about the life of prostitutes , The Pit ( 1915 ) , was accused by Russian critics of excessive Naturalism . Although not a conservative himself , he did not agree with the Bolshevism . While working for a short time with Maxim Gorky at the World Literature publishing house , he criticized them . In spring 1919 , from Gatchina near Petrograd , Kuprin left the country for France . He lived in Paris for most of the next 17 years , succumbing to alcoholism He wrote about this in much of his work . He eventually returned to Moscow on May 31 1937 , just a year before his death , at the height of the Great Purge . His return paved the way for publication of his works within Soviet Union . Kuprin died in the spring of 1938 in Leningrad . Kuprin is interred next to his fellow writers at the Volkovo Cemetery of Leningrad . Reportedly , " even today , Alexander Kuprin remains one of the widest read classics in Russian literature , " with many films made based on his works , " which are also read over the radio , " partly due to " his vivid stories of the lives of ordinary people and 