Aleksei Nikolaevich Tolstoi ( Russian : Алексей Николаевич Толстой ) ( January 10 1883 ( December 29 1882 ( O.S. ) ) - February 23 1945 ) , nicknamed the Comrade Count , was a Soviet Russian writer who wrote in many genres but specialized in science fiction and historical novels . He was born in Nikolaevsk ( now Pugachyov , Saratov Oblast ) in 1883 into an impoverished branch of the Counts Tolstoi . His father was a retired hussar and landowner , Count Nikolay Alexandrovich Tolstoi , and his mother was a children 's writer Alexandra Leonievna Bostrom ( born Turgeneva , also known as Alexandra Tolstoi ) . Aleksei was the fourth child in the Tolstoi 's family . When his mother was two months pregnant , she fled the family with her lover , Aleksei Apollonovich Bostrom . In accordance with the divorce law of the time , the guilty party ( Alexandra ) was forbidden to remarry , and the only way for her to keep her newborn son was to register him as a son of Bostrom . Thus , until the age of thirteen , Aleksei had lived under the name of Aleksei Bostrom and had not suspected that Aleksei Bostrom Sr. was not his biological parent . In 1896 both Tolstoi and Bostrom families went into bureaucratic pains to re - register Aleksei as count Tolstoi . Still , he considered Aleksei Bostrom his true father and had hardly ever seen Nikolai Tolstoi and his older siblings . In 1900 Nikolai Tolstoi died , having left Aleksei with 30,000 rubles and a famous family name . Later , he assumed a rather humorous attitude towards the Tolstoi 's heritage . He was known for filling the walls of his apartment with darkened portraits and telling newcomers tales about his Tolstoi ancestors ; then he would explain to his friends that all the portraits were purchased at random from a nearby secondhand store and that the stories were complete fiction . Tolstoi 's early short stories were panned by Alexander Blok and other leading critics of the time for their excessive naturalism , wanton eroticism , and general lack of taste in the manner of Mikhail Artsybashev . Some pornographic stories published under Tolstoy 's name in the early 1900s were purportedly penned by him ; however , most critics remain sceptical as to whether Tolstoi is the real author . Aleksei Tolstoi left Russia in 1917 during the Bolshevik October Revolution and emigrated first to Germany and later to France . In 1923 , he repatriated and accepted the Soviet regime , having become one of its most popular writers . He became a staunch supporter of the Communist Party to the end , writing stories eulogizing Stalin and collaborating with Maxim Gorky on the infamous account of their trip to the White Sea - Baltic Canal . He published two lengthy historical novels , Peter the First ( 1929 - 45 ) , in which he sought to liken Peter 's policies to those of Stalin , and The Road to Calvary ( 1922 - 41 ) tracking the period from 1914 to 1919 including the Russian Civil War . He also wrote several plays . A 1927 Soviet poster advertising the 1924 movie Aelita : Queen of Mars , based on the novel by Aleksey Tolstoy . Aleksei Tolstoi is usually credited with having produced some of the earliest ( and best ) science fiction in the Russian language . His novels Aelita ( 1923 ) about a journey to 