Alex Sanchez is a Mexican - American author of award - winning novels for teens and adults . Sanchez was born in 1957 in Mexico City , Mexico to parents of German and Cuban heritage and emigrated to the United States in 1962 . Sanchez 's works explore themes of love , friendship , family , coming of age , and gay , bisexual , and questioning youth . His first novel , Rainbow Boys ( 2001 ) , was selected by the American Library Association ( ALA ) , as a " Best Book for Young Adults " . With the novel 's debut , Publisher 's Weekly ( PW ) Magazine deemed Sanchez a " Flying Start. " . Two sequels , Rainbow High ( 2003 ) and Rainbow Road ( 2005 ) , complete the Rainbow trilogy , portraying the coming of age of three gay and bisexual teenage boys . Both novels were honored as " Books for the Teen Age " by the New York Public Library . Sanchez 's novel So Hard to Say ( 2004 ) , about a group of 13 year - olds , won the Lambda Literary Award for Children 's and Young Adult literature . Getting It ( 2006 ) won second place at the 2007 Latino Book Awards for Best Young Adult Fiction in English . A new novel , The God Box to be released in October , 2007 , focuses on the conflict and friendship between two Christian teenage boys , one openly gay and the other struggling to accept his sexuality . Additional works by Sanchez include his short story , " If You Kiss a Boy , " which appeared in the anthology 13 : Thirteen Stories about the Agony and Ecstasy of Being Thirteen ( 2003 ) , edited by James Howe . Sanchez studied writing at the Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown , Massachusetts under Michael Cunningham , Richard McCann , Allan Gurganus , Peter Ho Davies , Michael Klein , Elizabeth McCracken , and Jacqueline Woodson . Although Sanchez 's novels are widely accepted in thousands of school and public libraries in America , they have faced a handful of challenges and efforts to ban them . Linda P. Harvey of Mission America in Columbus , Ohio targeted Rainbow Boys in her essay " The World According to PFLAG : Why PFLAG and Children Do n't Mix Unless you happen to like child abuse " ( sic ) . The book was also challenged by citizens in Owen , Wisconsin , but ultimately retained by the Owen - Withee Junior and Senior High School , although the superintendent suggested to create a policy of requiring guardian permission to check out the book ( ABFFE ) . In addition to the Wisconsin challenge , the book was also challenged at the Montgomery County Memorial Library System in Montgomery County , Texas ( Doyle 6 ) . The ACLU of Texas also reports that Rainbow Boys was challenged in Texas during the 2004 - 2005 school year ( ACLUTX 30 ) . Selected by the Junior Library Guild . ABFFE : American Booksellers Foundation for Free Expression . Accessed 11 September 2005 . ACLUTX ( American Civil Liberties Union of Texas ) . September 25 , 2005 . Accessed 16 August 2006 . Doyle , Robert P. Books Challenged Or Banned in 2001 - 2005 Illinois Library Association . Harvey , Linda P. " The World According to PFLAG : Why PFLAG and Children Do n't Mix Unless you happen to like 