Alexander Murray Palmer Haley ( August 11 , 1921 – February 10 , 1992 ) was an American writer . He is best known for The Autobiography of Malcolm X , which he co - wrote in collaboration with Malcolm X , and for his book Roots : The Saga of an American Family . Born in Ithaca , New York , in 1921 , Haley spent his first five years in Henning , Tennessee in an African American family mixed with Irish and Cherokee ancestry with his 2 younger brothers . Haley 's father , Simon Alexander Haley , was a professor of agriculture who had served in World War I . The younger Haley always spoke proudly of his father and the incredible obstacles of racism he had overcome . On May 24 , 1939 , Alex Haley began his 20 - year service with the Coast Guard . He enlisted as a mess - boy and then became a third class Petty Officer in the rate of Mess Attendant , one of the few enlisted designators open to African Americans at that time . It was during his service in the Pacific theater of operations that Haley taught himself the craft of writing stories . He talked of how the greatest enemy he and his crew faced during their long sea voyages was n't the Japanese but boredom . He collected many rejection slips over an eight - year period before his first story was bought . After World War II , Haley was able to petition the Coast Guard to allow him to transfer into the field of journalism , and by 1949 he had become a First Class Petty Officer in the rate of Journalist . He later advanced to the rank of Chief Petty Officer and held this grade until his retirement from the Coast Guard in 1959 . Alex Haley 's awards and decorations from the Coast Guard include the American Defense Service Medal ( w / " Sea " clasp ) , American Campaign Medal , Asiatic - Pacific Campaign Medal , European - African - Middle Eastern Campaign Medal , World War II Victory Medal , Coast Guard Good Conduct Medal ( w / 1 silver and 1 bronze service star ) , Korean Service Medal , National Defense Service Medal , United Nations Service Medal , and the Coast Guard Expert Marksmanship Medal . After his retirement from the Coast Guard , Haley began his writing career and eventually became a senior editor for Reader 's Digest . Haley conducted the first Playboy interview for Playboy magazine . The interview , with jazz legend Miles Davis , appeared in the September 1962 issue . In the interview , Davis candidly spoke about his thoughts and feelings on racism and it was that interview that set the tone for what would become a significant part of the magazine . Dr. Martin Luther King , Jr. 's Playboy Interview with Haley was the longest he ever granted to any publication . Throughout the 1960s , Haley was responsible for some of the magazine 's most notable interviews , including an interview with American Nazi Party leader George Lincoln Rockwell , who agreed to meet with Haley only after Haley , in a phone conversation , assured him that he was not Jewish . Haley exhibited remarkable calm and professionalism despite the handgun Rockwell kept on the table throughout the interview . Haley also interviewed Cassius Clay , who spoke about changing his name to Muhammad Ali . Other interviews include Jack Ruby 