Alexis Lichine ( 1913 - 1989 ) was a wine writer and entrepreneur . He played a key role in promoting varietal labelling of wine , was a masterful salesman of wine , and owned Chateau Prieure - Lichine and a share of Château Lascombes in the Medoc . Lichine was born in Moscow in 1913 . His family fled to France during the Russian Revolution of 1917 , going on to the United States in 1919 . He studied economics at the University of Pennsylvania but dropped out because he felt he was n't learning anything . He was hired by wine merchant Frank Schoonmaker as his national sales manager following the repeal of Prohibition . On the outbreak of World War II , Lichine caught the last American ocean liner out of Bordeaux , the S.S. Manhattan . During the war he served in the United States Army Military Intelligence , in Europe and North Africa and was discharged as a Major . On his return from the war , Lichine asked for full partnership in the company . Schoonmaker declined and Lichine left . He moved to Margaux to set up a shipping organization , Lichine & Cie. , which became a leading exporter of first quality wines . In 1951 he purchased Chateau Prieure - Lichine and also became part owner and manager of Château Lascombes , both in the Médoc . Lichine served as an expert taster in the Paris Wine Tasting of 1976 and in the earlier New York Wine Tasting of 1973 . Alexis Lichine died of cancer at Chateau Prieure - Lichine on 1st June 1989 . He was succeeded by his son Sacha , aged 28 , who later moved to Switzerland and sold Prieure - Lichine in August 1999 . Lichine and Schoonmaker promoted the idea that California producers should label their wines by the grape variety or varieties from which they were made . The standard practice among New World producers was to give their wines semi - generic labels . That is , they named them after the regions whose wines they resembled . For example , full - bodied red varieties might be labeled " Burgundy " , whereas crisp whites might be labeled " Chablis " . California 's Wente was the first vintner to adopt the practice . After calling its Sauvignon Blanc by its varietal name rather than labeling it " Graves , " Lichine and Schoonmaker found its sales volume to increase several - fold . More important , they were able to sell it in the important east coast U.S. market . Others , such as Robert Mondavi , soon adopted the practice , which has become the standard for New World ( and , increasingly , some Old World ) wines . Lichine’s writings included Wines of France , ( 1951 , revised 1955 ) Guide to Wines and Vineyards of France , and Alexis Lichine’s Encyclopedia of Wines and Spirits . New York Times wine critic Frank J. Prial asserted that " Alexis Lichine , the Russian - American who loved France but hated the French , taught his adopted country to drink wine. " . Prial , Frank J. Decantations : Reflections on Wine by the New York Times Wine Critic . NY : St. Martin 's Griffin , 2001 . 