Sandor ( Alexander ) Rado ( Hungarian Radó Sándor 5 November 1899 , Újpest – 1981 – Budapest ) was a Hungarian - born Soviet military intelligence agent during World War II . Rado was born in a Jewish family in Újpest near Budapest . His father was a manager in a trade firm and then a businessman . During World War I after the graduation from gymnasium ( high school ) in 1917 Rado was drafted into Austro - Hungarian army . He was sent into a fortress artillery officer school . After the graduation from the officer school in 1918 he was sent to an artillery regiment . At the same time being on military service he was a correspondence student of law faculty of Budapest university . In December 1918 after the fall of Austro - Hungarian monarchy Rado joined Hungarian Communist Party . When the communists came to power in Hungary in March 1919 he was appointed a cartographer in the staff of a Hungarian Red Army division . When he came to the division staff the political commissar of the division Ferenz Munich appointed Rado commissar of the artillery of the division . He took part in fighting against Czechoslovak forces and then in fighting against anti - communist insurgents in Budapest . On 1 September 1919 after the fall of the communist regime in Hungary Rado fled to Austria . He studied geography and cartography in Vienna University and wrote articles on military matters in German - language magazine “Kommunizmus” published by Hungarian political emigrants in Austria . Then in July 1920 he established “Rosta - Wien” , an information agency which was used to spread propaganda materials broadcasted from Soviet Russia . They were received through the bribed head of Vienna radio station . Information bulletins based on these materials were distributed to left - wing newspapers and organizations in various countries . In 1922 Rado came to Germany and began studying first in Jena and then in Leipzig universities . In October 1923 Rado became the military chief of the communist forces in Leipzig which had to take part in an uprising which was aborted at the last moment . After that fearing arrest in Germany Rado in September 1924 came to Soviet Union where he worked first in All - Union Society for Cultural Contacts with Abroad ( VOKS ) and then in the World Economy Institute of the Communist Academy . In 1926 Rado returned to Germany , established in Berlin cartographic agency “Pressgeography” and lectured in a Marxist school on economic geography , labour movement and imperialism . After Nazis came to power in Germany in 1933 Rado and his wife Lena fled through Austria to France . In Paris Rado established “Inpress” ( independent anti - Nazi press agency ) . In 1935 during a visit to Rado was approached by deputy chief of Soviet military intelligence Artur Artuzov and Soviet military intelligence chief Semion Urizkiy , and recruited as an intelligence agent with the main task of obtaining intelligence on Nazi Germany . Following the instructions he received Rado unsuccessfully tried to obtain a residence permit in Belgium and then in 1936 he obtained a residence permit in Switzerland and moved to Geneva . There he established cartographic agency “Geopress” . In 1937 Rado made a visit to Italy in order to obtain intelligence about the Italian military support of Francist forces during the |Spanish civil war . This intelligence was sent to Moscow through Paris Soviet military intelligence station . In 1938 Rado contacted Swiss journalist 