Alexis - Charles - Henri Clérel de Tocqueville ( July 29 , 1805 – April 16 , 1859 ) was a French political thinker and historian best known for his Democracy in America ( appearing in two volumes : 1835 and 1840 ) and The Old Regime and the Revolution ( 1856 ) . In both of these works , he explored the effects of the rising equality of social conditions on both the individual and the state in western societies . Democracy in America ( 1835 ) , his major work , published after his travels in the United States , is today considered an early work of sociology . An eminent representative of the liberal political tradition , Tocqueville was also an active participant in French politics , first under the July Monarchy ( 1830–1848 ) and then during the Second Republic ( 1849–1851 ) which succeeded to the February 1848 Revolution . He retired from political life after Louis Napoléon Bonaparte 's December 2 , 1851 coup , and thereafter began work on The Old Regime and the Revolution , Volume I of which was completed by the time he died . Tocqueville 's family had its origins in the landed nobility of Normandy , where several places are named after his family . After obtaining a law degree , Alexis de Tocqueville was named auditor - magistrate at the court of Versailles . There , he met Gustave de Beaumont , a prosecutor substitute , who collaborated with him on various literary works . Both were sent to the United States to study the penitentiary system . During this trip , they wrote Du système pénitentiaire aux Etats - Unis et de son application ( 1832 ) . Back in France , Tocqueville became a lawyer , and then published his master - work , De la démocratie en Amérique , in 1835 . The success of this work , an early model for the science that would become known as sociology , led him to be named chevalier de la Légion d'honneur ( Knight of the Legion of Honour ) in 1837 , and to be elected the next year to the Académie des sciences morales et politiques . In 1841 he was elected to the Académie française . Tocqueville , who despised the July Monarchy ( 1830–1848 ) , began his political career in the same period . Thus , he became deputy of the Manche department ( Valognes ) , a position which he maintained until 1851 . In parliament , he defended abolitionist views and upheld free trade , while supporting the colonization of Algeria carried on by Louis - Philippe 's regime . Tocqueville was also elected general counsellor of the Manche in 1842 , and became the president of the department 's conseil général between 1849 and 1851 . Apart from Canada , Tocqueville also made an observational tour of England , producing Memoir on Pauperism . In 1841 and 1846 , he traveled to Algeria . His first travel inspired his Travail sur l'Algérie , in which he criticized the French model of colonization , based on an assimilationist view , preferring instead the British model of indirect rule , which did n't mix different populations together . He went as far as openly advocating racial segregation between the European colonists and the " Arabs " through the implementation of two different legislative systems ( a half century before its effective implementation with the 1881 Indigenous code ) . After the fall of the July Monarchy during the February 