Alexandru Hrisoverghi ( February 27 , 1811–March 9 , 1837 ) was a Moldavian Romanian - language poet and translator , whose work was influenced by Romanticism . The author of few lyrical works , he was foremost noted for his association with political and intellectual figures such as Mihail Kogălniceanu , Costache Negruzzi , Vasile Cârlova , and Grigore Crupenschi . Born in Iaşi , Hrisoverghi was a member of the boyar category : the second of Vornic Neculai Hrisoverghi 's four sons , he traced his origin to Greek Phanariotes who were present in Moldavia during the rule of Prince Dimitrie Cantemir . His mother was Elena Ruset , a member of the Rosetti family . According to his friend and biographer Mihail Kogălniceanu , " Hrisoverghi took absolutely no pride in this vain noble origin ; he had sufficient personal merit , without needing any more from his parents " . Neculai Hrisoverghi died in 1818 . Alexandru Hrisoverghi 's childhood and youth coincided with the Greek War of Independence , during which the Filiki Eteria troops of Alexander Ypsilantis occupied Moldavia and Wallachia ; the Hrisoverghis took refuge in Imperial Russian - ruled Bessarabia . It was in Chişinău that he began his studies , being tutored in Ancient Greek by a teacher named Constantin , before returning to his native city in 1824 . After attending the Orthodox school in Iaşi , he enrolled in a French - language boarding school headed by a professor Mouton , while being tutored in Ancient Greek literature by a Greek teacher named Franguli . According to Kogălniceanu : " His education was superficial ; but this was no fault of his , rather that of a lack in educational institutions that was being experienced in Moldavia at the time " . As a consequence of the Russo - Turkish War of 1828–1829 , Moldavia and Wallachia were occupied by Russia , and , soon after , became subject to the Regulamentul Organic regime . This notably provided for the creation of a Moldavian Militia force , which young people of the principality joined in large numbers after 1830 . Hrisoverghi was one of them , but withdrew in 1832 , after just two years of service — dissatisfied with military life , he was also the sole provider for his family after two of his brothers had died . At the time , he became an avid reader of André Chénier and other French Romantics , while leading a Bohemian lifestyle and becoming noted for his affairs with women . Reportedly , he was a handsome person , and the object of compliments from women in high society . By that time , Hrisoverghi was showing the symptoms of an unknown disease , which first manifested itself as renal colics . As doctors recommended exercise and fresh air , he left for the Ottoman Empire , visiting Rumelia on his way to Edirne . In Kogălniceanu 's view : " The patriarchal life of the Bulgarians , their customs so unlike those of any other , more civilized and thus more commonplace , nations , the magnificent view of the Balkans still full of souvenirs from the Russian victories , all that primitive nature left vivid imprints in his memory and awoke within him the poetic genius " . Returning to Moldavia in 1834 , Alexandru Hrisoverghi published his debut work , Ruinelor Cetăţii Neamţu or Oda ruinelor Cetăţii Neamţu , an ode which had been prompted by news that the inhabitants of Târgu Neamţ were planning to 