Spanish immigrants and the " Bolivian dream " : Gumucio Family , a case of study . Alfonso Gumucio Dagron ( Autobiography ) ( Bolivia , 1950 ) is a writer , filmmaker , journalist , photographer and development communication specialist . He is the author of several books on film and communication for social change , as well as documentary films , photographic exhibits and hundreds of articles in journals . He has worked in five continents on social development projects , as a communication for development specialist . Because of his involvement as progressive journalist he has twice been forced to live in exile , first in Paris from 1972 to 1978 , and later in Mexico from 1980 to 1984 . He studied filmmaking at the Institut des hautes études cinématographique ( IDHEC ) and the University of Vincennes , in Paris . Back in Bolivia in 1978 he directed a number of documentaries on cultural and social issues , as he worked at the Centro de Investigacion y Promocion del Campesinado ( CIPCA ) , a Bolivian NGO , and published as a journalist in various daily newspapers and weekly journals . Since the mid 1980s his work in development communication programs has taken him to Africa , Asia , the South Pacific , Latin America and The Caribbean , serving for various international organizations . He worked with UNICEF in Nigeria and Haiti , and as an international consultant for FAO , UNDP , UNESCO , The Rockefeller Foundation , AusAID and Conservation International . He is the Managing Director for Programmes at the Communication for Social Change Consortium and familiar with issues of child rights , environment , indigenous populations , arts and culture , human rights , community organization , health and sustainable development . His father was Alfonso Gumucio Reyes , a leader of the Movimiento Nacionalista Revolucionario ( MNR ) , Minister of Economy during the Government of Victor Paz Estenssoro , and Ambassador to Uruguay and Spain . He has published over twenty books , including poetry , narrative and studies on literature , film and communication : Provocaciones , his first book ( 1977 ) is a collection of in - depth interviews with 14 important Bolivian writers , among them : Jesus Lara , Augusto Cespedes , Oscar Cerruto , Jaime Saenz , Pedro Shimose , Renato Prada Oropeza and Raul Teixido . His studies on Bolivian and Latin American film trace the evolution of this art form in his region and home country : Historia del Cine Boliviano ( Mexico , 1982 ) ; Cine , Censura y Exilio en América Latina ( 1979 ) ; Les Cinémas d’Amerique Latine ( Paris , 1981 ) written in French , in collaboration with French film critic Guy Hennebelle ; El Cine de los Trabajadores ( Managua , 1981 ) , and Luis Espinal y el Cine ( 1986 ) . Bolivie ( Paris , 1981 , published by Editions Le Seuil , is an essay on his home country , covering history , politics , culture and other issues . La Máscara del Gorila ( Mexico , 1982 ) , is his account on the Bolivian military coup of 1981 and was awarded with the National Literature Award of the Instituto Nacional de Bellas Artes of Mexico ( INBA ) . His poetry books include : Antología del asco ( 1979 ) , Razones técnicas ( 1980 ) , Sobras completas ( 1984 ) , Sentímetros ( 1990 ) and Memoria de Caracoles ( 2000 ) . His 