Alice Malsenior Walker ( born February 9 , 1944 ) is an American author and feminist . She received the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1983 for her critically acclaimed novel The Color Purple . Walker was born in Eatonton , Georgia , the eighth child of sharecroppers . As well as being African American , her family has Cherokee , Scottish and Irish lineage . But I felt in Georgia and on the east coast generally very squeezed . People have so many hang - ups about how other people live their lives . People always want to keep you in a little box or they need to label you and fix you in time and location . I feel a greater fluidity here . People are much more willing to accept that nothing is permanent , everything is changeable so there is freedom and I do need to live where I can be free . In her book Alice Walker : A Life , author Evelyn C. White talks about an incident when Walker , who was eight year old at the time , was injured when her brother accidentally shot her in the eye with a BB gun . She became blinded in one eye as a result . In the book , White suggests this event had a large impact on Walker , especially when a white doctor in town swindled her parents out of $250 they paid to repair her injury . Walker refers to this incident in her book Warrior Marks , a chronicle of female genital mutilation in Africa , and uses it to illustrate the sacrificial marks women bear that allow them to be " warriors " against female suppression . After high school , she entered Spelman College in Atlanta on full scholarship in 1961 and later transferred up north to Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville , New York , graduating in January 1966 . Walker became interested in the U.S. civil rights movement in part due to the influence of activist Howard Zinn , who was one of her professors at Spelman College . Continuing the activism that she participated in during her college years , Walker returned to the South where she became involved with voter registration drives , campaigns for welfare rights , and children 's programs in Mississippi . In 1965 , Walker met and later married Mel Leventhal , a Jewish civil rights lawyer . They became the first legally married inter - racial couple in Mississippi . This brought them a steady stream of harassment and even murderous threats from the Ku Klux Klan . The couple had a daughter , Rebecca , and divorced in 1976 . Walker 's first book of poetry was written while she was still a senior at Sarah Lawrence , and she took a brief sabbatical from writing when she was in Mississippi working in the civil rights movement . Walker resumed her writing career when she joined Ms. Magazine as an editor before moving to northern California in the late 1970s . An article she published in 1975 was largely responsible for the renewal of interest in the work of Zora Neale Hurston , who was a large source of inspiration for Walker 's writing and subject matter . In 1973 , Walker and fellow Hurston scholar Charlotte D. Hunt discovered Hurston 's unmarked grave in Ft. Pierce , Florida . Both women paid for a modest headstone for the gravesite . In addition to her collected short stories and poetry , Walker 's first work of fiction 