Alice Sebold ( b. September 6 , 1963 in Madison , Wisconsin ) is a bestselling American writer . She has published two books , Lucky and The Lovely Bones . A third book , The Almost Moon , is due to be published in late 2007 . Sebold grew up in the suburbs of Philadelphia and graduated from Great Valley High School in Malvern , Pennsylvania in 1980 . She then enrolled in Syracuse University . When she was 18 years old and a freshman at Syracuse , she was attacked , beaten and brutally raped in a nearby park . Following the incident , Sebold went back to her dorm where a security guard called an ambulance . After some months at home Sebold returned to Syracuse to finish her bachelor’s degree and study writing . While walking down a street near the Syracuse campus , she recognized her rapist and secured his arrest . Following graduation from Syracuse , Sebold went to Texas for graduate school . Then she moved to Manhattan and lived there for 10 years . Sebold wanted to write her story through poetry , but that , and attempts at writing a novel , did not come to fruition . Sebold recounted her substance abuse to students at an Evening of Fiction workshop by saying that , " I did a lot of things that I am not particularly proud of and that I can’t believe that I did. " . Sebold left the city and moved to Southern California , where she became a caretaker of an arts colony , earning $386 a month and living in a cabin in the woods without electricity . She would write by propane candlelight . Later , Sebold applied to graduate school at University of California , Irvine in 1995 . While at UCI Sebold began writing Lucky , a memoir of her rape . She named the book from a police officer who told Sebold that she was " lucky " for not being killed because a girl was raped and killed in the same place she was attacked . The story began while writing a ten - page assignment for class , though Sebold eventually wrote 40 pages . After publishing Lucky in 1999 , Sebold continued her writing career . She published a bestselling novel The Lovely Bones in 2002 . The book is a story of a 14 - year - old girl who is raped and murdered . She tells her story from her personalized Heaven looking down as her family tries to cope with her death and her killer escapes the police . While working on The Lovely Bones in 1995 , Sebold met her husband Glen David Gold at UCI . He arrived late for one of his classes and he could not remove his motor cycle helmet , and they began talking . They were married in November 2001 . In an interview conducted by Ann Darby of Publishers Weekly , Sebold said of The Lovely Bones : " I was motivated to write about violence because I believe it 's not unusual . I see it as just a part of life , and I think we get in trouble when we separate people who've experienced it from those who have n't . Though it 's a horrible experience , it 's not as if violence has n't affected many of us. " . Sebold won the American Booksellers Association Book of the Year Award for Adult Fiction in 2003 and the Bram Stoker Award for 