Allan Ramsay ( October 15 , 1686 – January 7 , 1758 ) was a Scottish poet . Allan Ramsay was born at Leadhills , Lanarkshire to John Ramsay , superintendent of Lord Hopetoun 's lead - mines and his wife , Alice Bower , a native of Derbyshire . He was educated at the parish school of Crawford , and in 1701 was apprenticed to a wig - maker in Edinburgh . He married Christian Ross in 1712 ; a few years after he had established himself as a wig - maker ( not as a barber , as has been often said ) in the High Street , and soon found himself in comfortable circumstances . They had six children . His eldest child was Allan Ramsay , the portrait painter . Ramsay 's first efforts in verse - making were inspired by the meetings of the Easy Club ( founded in 1712 ) , of which he was an original member ; and in 1715 he became the Club Laureate . In the society of the members he assumed the name of " Isaac Bickerstaff , " and later of " Gawin Douglas , " the latter partly in memory of his maternal grandfather Douglas of Muthill ( Perthshire ) , and partly to give point to his boast that he was a " poet sprung from a Douglas loin. " . The choice of the two names has some significance , when we consider his later literary life as the associate of the Queen Anne poets and as a collector of old Lowland Scots poetry . By 1718 he had made some reputation as a writer of occasional verse , which he published in broadsheets , and then ( or a year earlier ) he turned bookseller in the premises where he had hitherto plied his craft of wig - making . In 1716 he had published a rough transcript of Christ 's Kirk on the Green from the Bannatyne manuscript , with some additions of his own . In 1718 he republished the piece with more supplementary verses . In the following year he printed a collection of Scots Songs . The success of these ventures prompted him to collect his poems in 1722 . The volume was issued by subscription , and brought in the sum of four hundred guineas . Four years later he removed to another shop , in the neighbouring Luckenbooths , where he opened a circulating library ( the first in Scotland ) and extended his business as a bookseller . Between the publication of the collected edition of his poems and his settling down in the Luckenbooths , he had published a few shorter poems and had issued the first instalments of The Tea - Table Miscellany and The Ever Green ( both 1724 - 1727 ) . The Tea - Table Miscellany is " A Collection of Choice Songs Scots and English , " containing some of Ramsay 's own , some by his friends , several well - known ballads and songs , and some Caroline verse . Its title was suggested by the programme of The Spectator : and the compiler claimed the place for his songs " e'en while the tea 's fill'd reeking round , " which Addison sought for his speculations at the hour set apart " for tea and bread and butter. " . In The Ever Green , being a Collection of Scots Poems wrote by the Ingenious before 1600 , Ramsay had another purpose , to reawaken an interest in 