Irwin Allen Ginsberg ( IPA : ) ( June 3 , 1926 – April 5 1997 ) was an American poet . Ginsberg is best known for Howl ( 1956 ) , a long poem about the self - destruction of his friends of the Beat Generation and what he saw as the destructive forces of materialism and conformity in United States at the time . Ginsberg was born into a Jewish family in Newark , New Jersey . He grew up in nearby Paterson . His father Louis Ginsberg was a poet and a high school teacher . Ginsberg 's mother , Naomi Livergant Ginsberg ( who was affected by epileptic seizures and mental illnesses such as paranoia ) was an active member of the Communist Party and often took Ginsberg and his brother Eugene to party meetings . As a teenager , Ginsberg began to write letters to The New York Times about political issues such as World War II and workers ' rights . When he was a junior in high school , he accompanied his mother by bus to her therapist . The trip disturbed Ginsberg - he mentioned it and other moments from his childhood in his long autobiographical poem " Kaddish for Naomi Ginsberg ( 1894 - 1956 ) . " . While in high school , Ginsberg began reading Walt Whitman ; he said he was inspired by his teacher 's passion in reading . In 1943 Ginsberg graduated from Eastside High School and briefly attended Montclair State University before entering Columbia University on a scholarship from the Young Men 's Hebrew Association of Paterson , ( 1949 ) . While at Columbia , Ginsberg contributed to the Columbia Review literary journal , the Jester humor magazine , won the Woodberry Poetry Prize and served as president of the Philolexian Society , the campus literary and debate group . In Ginsberg 's freshman year at Columbia he met fellow undergraduate Lucien Carr , who introduced him to a number of future Beat writers including Jack Kerouac , William S. Burroughs , and John Clellon Holmes . They bonded because they saw in one another excitement about the potential of the youth of America , a potential which existed outside the strict conformist confines of post - WWII McCarthy - era America . Ginsberg and Carr talked excitedly about a " New Vision " ( a phrase adapted from Arthur Rimbaud ) for literature and America . Carr also introduced Ginsberg to Neal Cassady , for whom Ginsberg had a long infatuation . Kerouac later described the meeting between Ginsberg and Cassady in the first chapter of his 1957 novel On the Road . Kerouac saw them then as the dark ( Ginsberg ) and light ( Cassady ) side of their " New Vision. " . Kerouac 's perception had to do partly with Ginsberg 's association with Communism ( though Ginsberg himself was never a Communist ) ; Kerouac called Ginsberg " Carlo Marx " in On the Road . This was a source of strain in their relationship since Kerouac grew increasingly distrustful of Communism . In 1948 in an apartment in Harlem , Ginsberg had an auditory hallucination of William Blake reading his poems " Ah , Sunflower , " " The Sick Rose , " and " Little Girl Lost " ( later referred to as his " Blake vision " ) . Ginsberg was reading these poems at the time , and he said he was very familiar with them ; at one point he claimed he heard 