Alvin Pang ( Chinese : 冯启明 ; born 1972 , Singapore ) was named 2005 Young Artist of the Year ( Literature ) by the National Arts Council Singapore . He holds First Class Honours in Literature from the University of York and an Honorary Fellowship in Writing from the University of Iowa 's International Writing Program ( 2002 ) . He was conferred the Singapore Youth Award ( Arts and Culture ) in 2007 . His first volume of poems , TESTING THE SILENCE ( Ethos Books , 1997 ) was listed as one of the Top Ten Books of 1997 by The Straits Times and was short listed for the National Book Development Council of Singapore ( NBDCS ) Book Award in 1998 / 9 . CITY OF RAIN ( Ethos Books , 2003 ) , his second volume of poetry , was the only Singaporean book to be named to the Straits Times Top Ten List for 2003 . He is the co - editor of the seminal volume , NO OTHER CITY : The Ethos Anthology of Urban Poetry ( Ethos Books , 2000 ) , one of the Straits Times ' Top Ten Books for 2000 and a key text on university syllabuses . In 2001 , he was one of a quartet of bilateral editors who developed a joint anthology of Singapore - Filipino love poetry . It was released as LOVE GATHERS ALL : The Philippines - Singapore Anthology of Love Poetry ( Anvil Press / Ethos Books , 2002 ) , and won the Global Filipino Literary Award for Poetry in 2003 . He is also the Country Editor ( Singapore ) for a forthcoming Penguin Book of Southeast Asian Verse , and co - editor , along with the poet John Kinsella , of a forthcoming anthology of Singapore and Australian poetry . Pang was the Featured Poet in the Spring 2002 issue of the Atlanta Review ( USA ) , a journal which counts Nobel Prize laureates Seamus Heaney and Derek Walcott among its contributors ; he is also among the select few poets celebrated in its 10th Anniversary edition . His work has also been featured in journals such as the English Review ( UK ) , Paper Tiger ( Australia ) , Interlogue : Studies in Singapore Literature , Bonnier 's Literary Magazine , Slope ( USA ) , Quarterly Literary Review Singapore and RHYTHMS : The Millennium Anthology of Singapore Poetry , for which he was also the English Language Poetry Editor . His poetry has appeared at the Poetry Society and Poetry Library in London ; and has been staged by professional theatre companies in the US , Malaysia and Singapore . It has also been exhibited in the Asian Civilisations Museum , expressed as sound sculpture , screened on national television , and requested and read on BBC Radio . A recipient of several Singapore International Foundation and National Arts Council grants , Pang frequently assists the National Arts Council in literary projects . He served on the organizing committees of the Singapore Writer’s Festival in 1997 , 1999 , 2001 and 2003 . He is also a founder and coordinator of WORDFEAST 2004 – Singapore’s first international poetry festival . In 2003 , Pang co - founded The Literary Centre ( Singapore ) , a not - for - profit organisation dedicated to literary development . Pang has made several international appearances in support of Singaporean writing . He led a delegation of Singapore writers to Australia in July 2001 and another to the 