Ambrose Gwinnett Bierce ( June 24 , 1842 – 1914 ? ) was an American editorialist , journalist , short - story writer and satirist , today best known for his Devil 's Dictionary . Bierce 's lucid , unsentimental style has kept him popular when many of his contemporaries have been consigned to oblivion . His dark , sardonic views and vehemence as a critic earned him the nickname , " Bitter Bierce. " . Such was his reputation that it was said his judgment on any piece of prose or poetry could make or break a writer 's career . Among the younger writers whom he encouraged were the poet George Sterling and the fiction writer W. C. Morrow . Portrait by J.H.E . Bierce was born in rural Meigs County , Ohio , and grew up in Kosciusko County , Indiana , attending high school at the county seat of Warsaw . He was the tenth of 13 children , whose father , Marcus Aurelius Bierce ( 1799 - 1876 ) , gave all of them names beginning with the letter " A. " In order of birth , the Bierce siblings were Abigail , Amelia , Ann , Addison , Aurelius , Augustus , Almeda , Andrew , Albert , Ambrose , Arthur , Adelia , and Aurelia . His mother Laura Sherwood was a descendant of William Bradford . At the outset of the American Civil War , Bierce enlisted in the Union Army 's 9th Indiana Volunteer Infantry . In February 1862 he was commissioned first lieutenant , and served on the staff of General William Babcock Hazen as a topographical engineer , making maps of likely battlefields . Bierce fought at the Battle of Shiloh ( April 1862 ) , a terrifying experience that became a source for several later short stories and the memoir What I Saw of Shiloh . He continued fighting in the Western theater , at one point receiving newspaper attention for his daring rescue , under fire , of a gravely wounded comrade at the Battle of Rich Mountain , West Virginia . In June 1864 he sustained a serious head wound at the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain , and spent the rest of the summer on furlough , returning to active duty in September . He was discharged from the army in January 1865 . His military career resumed , however , when in the summer of 1866 he rejoined General Hazen as part of the latter 's expedition to inspect military outposts across the Great Plains . The expedition proceeded by horseback and wagon from Omaha , Nebraska , arriving toward year 's end in San Francisco , California . Bierce married Mary Ellen ( " Mollie " ) Day on Christmas Day , 1871 . They had three children , Day ( 1872 - 1889 ) , Leigh ( 1874 - 1901 ) and Helen ( 1875 - 1940 ) . Both of Bierce 's sons predeceased him : Day was shot in a brawl over a woman , and Leigh died of pneumonia related to alcoholism . Bierce separated from his wife in 1888 after discovering compromising letters to her from an admirer , and the couple finally divorced in 1904 . Mollie died the following year . In San Francisco , Bierce received the rank of brevet major before resigning from the Army . He remained in San Francisco for many years , eventually becoming famous as a contributor and / or editor for a number of local newspapers and periodicals , including 