Anatole France ( 16 April 1844 – 12 October 1924 ) was the pen name of French author Jacques Anatole François Thibault . He was born in Paris , France , and died in Tours , Indre - et - Loire , France . The son of a bookseller , he spent most of his life around books . His father 's bookstore was called the Librairie de France and from this name Jacques Anatole François Thibault took his nom - de plume . Anatole France studied at the Collège Stanislaus and after graduation he helped his father by working at his bookstore . After several years he secured the position of a cataloguer at Bacheline - Deflorenne and at Lemerre , and in 1876 he was appointed a librarian for the French Senate . Ironic , skeptical , he was considered in his day the ideal French man of letters . He was elected to the French Academy in 1896 and was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1921 . Anatole France became known after the publication of Le crime de Sylvestre Bonnard ( 1881 ) where he looked back at the 18th century as a golden age . Its protagonist , skeptical old scholar Sylvester Bonnard , embodied France 's own personality . The novel was praised for its elegant prose and won him a prize from the French Academy . In La rotisserie de la Reine Pedauque ( 1893 ) Anatole France ridiculed belief in the occult ; and in Les opinions de Jerome Coignard ( 1893 ) , France captures the atmosphere of the fin de siècle . France 's later works include L'Île des Pingouins ( 1908 ) which satirizes human nature by depicting the transformation of penguins into humans - after the animals have been baptized in error by the nearsighted Abbot Mael . La Revolte des Anges ( 1914 ) , often considered France 's most profound novel , tells the story of Arcade , the guardian angel of Maurice d'Esparvieu , who falls in love , joins the revolutionary movement of angels , and toward the end realizes that the overthrow of God is meaningless unless in ourselves and in ourselves alone we attack and destroy Ialdabaoth . In the 1920s France 's writings were put on the index of Libri prohibiti . A republic is ugliness set free. " . Afterwards , she smiled coyly and told him : “Do not think , dear chevalier , that you won me against my will . Better thank our good preacher who reminded me that we are mortal , and a pleasure missed today is missed forever . Now we can proceed , for I missed too many pleasures while being too prudent for my own good” . 