Anatoly Vasilievich Kuznetsov ( Russian : Анатолий Кузнецов ; August 18 , 1929 , Kyiv–June 13 , 1979 , London ) was a Russian language Soviet writer who described his experiences in German - occupied Kiev during WWII in his internationally acclaimed novel Babi Yar : A Document in the Form of a Novel . The book was originally published in a censored form in 1966 in Russian language . Kuznetsov had a Russian father and a Ukrainian mother , and his passport stated that he was Russian . He grew up in the Kiev district of Kurenivka , in his own words " a stone 's throw from a vast ravine , whose name , Babi Yar , was once known only to locals. " At the age fourteen , Kuznetsov began recording in a notebook everything he saw and heard about the Babi Yar massacre . Once his mother discovered it and read his notes . She cried and advised him to save them for a book he might write someday . Before becoming a writer , Kuznetsov " studied ballet and acting , tried painting and music , worked as a carpenter , road builder , concrete worker , helped build the Kakhovka hydroelectric power plant on the Dnipro , and worked on the Irkutsk and Bratsk hydroelectric power plants in Siberia. " . In 1955 , he joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union . Eventually , he began " studying to become a writer " and enrolled at the Moscow Gorky Literary Institute . In 1957 , literary magazine Yunost featured his novella entitled Continuation of a Legend . It tells the story of a young man , who came to work in Siberia with a solid youthful belief in something better , in some ultimate good , despite all the hardships and poverty . The Yunost editors liked the novella very much but said they couldn’t publish it : the censors wouldn’t allow it , the magazine would be closed , and I would be arrested or , in the worst case , barred from literature for life . For a long time my novella gathered dust without any hope of being published , but eventually I forced myself to add some optimistic episodes , which contrasted so sharply with the overall style and were so outrageously cheerful that no reader would take them seriously. " . The novella was turned down , but eventually was published in a heavily censored form and without author 's approval . It was this version that earned him a countrywide fame . He graduated in 1960 and was admitted to the USSR Union of Writers and , by extension , to the State Literary Fund . In the 1960s he became famous as one of the country 's most talented and progressive writers , the father of the genre of confessional prose . He married Iryna Marchenko and was preparing to become a father . Soon he and his pregnant wife moved to Tula . The novel Babi Yar , published in Yunost in 1966 , cemented Anatoly Kuznetsov 's fame . The novel included the previously unknown materials about the execution of 33,771 Jews in the course of two days , September 29 - 30 , 1941 , in the Kiev ravine Babi Yar . The uncensored work included materials highly critical of the Soviet regime . Working on it was not easy . Kuznetsov recalled : " For a whole month in Kiev I had nightmares , which wore me out so much that 