Andrew Glaister , born July 4th , 1967 in Marlow , England , is a video game programmer . He initially started programming games on the ZX81 and ZX Spectrum between 1981 and 1987 , forming a company called Programmers Development Systems Ltd . Andrew then worked as a developer for Viacom New Media , Kinesoft Development and FASA Interactive in the US . When Microsoft Game Studios acquired FASA in 1999 , Andrew continued to work for them as a Development Manager , in later years particularly for the Windows Graphics and Gaming team working on Direct X 10 , display drivers and other features for Windows Vista . Andrew first started playing with electronics at age 10 , and had built his first computer at age 12 . This was a simple design based on the SC / MP 8060 , in a wooden box with 8 LEDs , 8 input switches and 32 bytes of RAM from 4 74LS89 16x4 chips . In 1980 he acquired his first ' real ' computer , a Microtan 65 , and spent time using his friend 's ZX80 . In 1981 his parents purchased a ZX81 for Andrew , and within months he began selling his own games . This was done at first through one of the first computer stores in England – the Buffer Micro Shop in Streatham . Duplication was performed on C15 cassette tapes after school , with photocopied inserts . Andrew would then go by train from Crawley to Streatham and return with his profits . After meeting an employee from Silversoft in the shop one day , Andrew decided to let that company publish the games instead . 1982 saw the release of the ZX Spectrum . One of Andrews first games , Orbiter , sold 30,000 copies over Christmas . He started working with Softek ( started by Tim Langdell ) , writing a number of games such as Ostron . Using the money from those games , Andrew purchased an Osborne 1 and started to use Z80 assemblers to try and produce code for the Spectrum . He also used the built - in 300 baud modem to play with friends Jez San and Fouad Katan a new game called MUD - Multi User Dungeon , remotely logging into Essex University . In the late 80s , he worked on the development of an early IBM PC clone , the Apricot PC . It was sold under the name Programmers Development Systems Ltd. , a company founded with Jacqui Lyons and Fouad Katan . During this time he was writing both Spectrum ports ( of Konami games Jail Break and Salamander for example ) and original games ( Empire ! ) . In 1989 Andrew moved to Vancouver after joining Mission Electronics as their lead firmware engineer , to help develop the first MCA laptop . In 1992 he joined Icom Simulations in Illinois , working on the official development system for the TurboGrafx - 16 . In 1994 Icom Simulations was acquired by Viacom New Media . Andrew was retained and he worked on several projects such as Beyond Shadowgate and art and programming tools for many console games . During this time Andrew met Peter Sills and Mark Achler . Together they worked on converting console games to Windows as Kinesoft Development . Their conversion of Pitfall , Pitfall : The Mayan Adventure , was published in time for the launch of Windows 95 . This game was then used by Bill Gates at the E3 prior to the Windows 