Andrew Norman " The Poker Pundit " Glazer ( December 28 , 1955 – July 4 , 2004 ) was an American poker player , writer , and lawyer who was born in Amityville , New York . He is best known for being one of poker 's most prolific tournament reporters . Andy Glazer grew up in Massapequa , New York . He graduated from Plainedge High School in 1973 , and went on to attend the University of Michigan . His interest in sportswriting manifested itself early . At high school Glazer was the sports editor of the school newspaper ; in college , he served as the Managing Sports Editor for the University of Michigan school newspaper , Michigan Daily , and as a sports commentator for the school radio station . After graduating from the University of Michigan in 1977 , he was accepted at the Emory University School of Law . There he served as the editor in chief of the school newspaper until his graduation in 1980 . Glazer practiced law for only two years . He reportedly gave up law after representing a drug dealer in court that he knew was guilty . He won the case by bringing it to court before the district attorney was prepared ; the case left Glazer feeling guilty and led to him retiring . Glazer hoped to support himself by writing fiction , but was unsuccessful . He never managed to finish any of the stories he worked on . Glazer started playing poker to support himself while he tried establishing himself as a writer . He soon found himself achieving greater success in poker than in writing . He later met and became close friends with Phil Hellmuth ; his relationship with Hellmuth led to Glazer becoming the tournament reporter for the World Series of Poker . His tournament reports were widely liked for their regard to detail and emotion . Glazer went on to become a columnist for Card Player Magazine and the Detroit Free Press . He also wrote the novels Casino Gambling the Smart Way : How to Have More Fun and Win More Money and Complete Idiot 's Guide to Poker ( The Complete Idiot 's Guide ) . He also helped Phil Hellmuth write Play Poker like the Pros and was mentioned several times in Positively Fifth Street . Right before his death he started writing for finaltablepoker.com . Though better known in the poker community for his writing ; Glazer did achieve some success playing in poker tournaments . In 2002 Andy finished 22nd in the World Series of Poker Main Event . In 2003 Andy Glazer finished 6th in the World Poker Tour ( WPT ) Invitational . In 2004 he won two preliminary tournaments at the Crown Australian Poker Championship . By the time of his death , Andy Glazer 's total live tournament winnings exceeded $75,000 . 