Andy McNab DCM MM ( born December 28 1959 ) is a British former soldier turned novelist . McNab came to public prominence in 1993 when he wrote an account about the failed SAS mission Bravo Two Zero during the Gulf War . He has subsequently authored an autobiography and a number of works of fiction , including a specially commissioned story for the " Quick Reads Project " . McNab came originally from London , an adopted son . He wanted to be a pilot , but after failing the entrance test , he instead joined the Royal Green Jackets . He served in a variety of places including Northern Ireland and eventually tried for selection to the SAS , succeeding at the second attempt . McNab 's real name is not known to the public . He assumed the pseudonym Andy McNab when writing Bravo Two Zero . When he appears on television to promote his books or to act as a special services expert , his face is shadowed to prevent viewers from identifying him . As Larry King put it when McNab appeared on the Larry King Live show on CNN : " He 's in shadow for his security , as he is wanted dead by some terrorist groups. " . Following the Iraq war , it was subsequently revealed by Richard Tomlinson , the renegade MI6 spy in his book " The Big Breach " ( ISBN 1 - 903813 - 01 - 8 ) , that McNab was part of a special training team , readying new MI6 recruits in sabotage and guerrilla warfare techniques . Andy McNab is a former member of the British SAS , one of the world 's toughest and most respected elite special - forces commando units . Involved in covert and overt operations on five continents , McNab worked alongside Delta Force , the FBI , and the DEA . When he left the regiment in 1993 , he was the most highly decorated serving soldier in the British Army . He is now a sought - after lecturer on security and remains closely tied to the intelligence communities on both sides of the Atlantic . . . . Due to the extremely sensitive nature of his work with the SAS , Andy McNab is the only author who has to submit his fiction to the British Ministry of Defence for review , and he is still wanted by a number of the world 's terrorist organizations . He is therefore forbidden to reveal either his face or his current location . However , some other former SAS members , including Chris Ryan , Johnny " Two Combs " Howard and Shaun Clarke have also published fiction , with Ryan having also participated in the Bravo Two Zero patrol . Chris Ryan , and the former US Navy SEAL Richard Marcinko , are public figures with media careers , Ryan regularly appearing on television , most notably utilising his skills on one of Derren Brown 's psychic stunt shows . In his autobiography Immediate Action , McNab describes his involvement in a number of operations in Northern Ireland prior to his SAS selection , during which time he was in the Royal Green Jackets . During one such episode , he reveals his part in the shooting and killing of IRA operatives during a foot patrol . This , as well as his involvement with the covert unit 14 Intelligence Company during his special forces service may explain his concerns about his personal safety . McNab also 