Angela Knight is an American author of mostly erotic fantasy . She was a reporter for ten years and a comic book author . She lives in South Carolina . First published under Red Sage , she was able to write romantic fiction for the first time in 1996 . She published several short stories in their Secrets anthologies . Editor Cindy Hwang brought her to Berkley Publishing and has helped her become a best selling author . When developing her Mageverse series she wanted to create a unique spin on the vampire tale . Taking the Arthurian legend and twisting it , she has vampires that are not evil , still posses their souls , and can reproduce . Merlin was an alien who traveled to Earth from the Mageverse ( an alternate world where magic is everywhere ) to establish protectors . Merlin 's race had seen species that destroyed themselves as they advanced . To avoid this , he searched Earth for worthy men and women who would give everything to protect others . After drinking from the Grail , men became Magi , vampires and women became Majae , witches . They have a symbiotic relationship . The Magi have to drink blood from the Majae to help absorb the energies of the Mageverse . The Majae have to donate blood or they will suffer heart attack from excess blood and elevated pressure . The Majae are the magic in the Mageverse . The Magi also sleep during the day as another means of gaining magic . The men and women could theoretically live forever , should they not be killed . They are capable of reproducing with mortals to ensure that there are more potential candidates to recruit . Anyone born of such a union is a Latent . Their Gift , becoming Magi or Majae , is triggered by three or sexual encounters with a Gifted man or woman . A Latent must be approved by the Magi or Majae councils . Many can not psychologically handle the impact of the Mageverse ( It can trigger insanity ) . There are professional court seducers who Gift latents on the Councils orders . On Mageverse Earth , there are Fairies , Dragons , Unicorns and the city of Avalon where the Magi and Majae live . They magically create gates to travel to Realspace Earth . The Fairies are featured in Master of the Moon , which has King Llyr of the Faeries . Merlin , who knows that power can corrupt , created another magical species in case the Magi and Majae become out of control . These are werewolves . They do not have to wait until the full moon to change . They are a rigid society that has been hidden from their inception . In Master of Wolves , the werewolves declare themselves and fight along side the Magi and the Fairies . Master of Swords introduces the dragons of Mageverse in more depth and the hero for Master of Dragons is introduced . Jane 's Warlord introduces Jane Colby , a 20th century reporter . Baran Arvid is sent back from the future to protect her from another time traveler , Druas . Druas travels back in time to commit the Jack the Ripper murders and his next target is Jane . Baran is a technologically and genetically enhanced human classified as a Warlord . Mercenaires is three short stories ( originally published electronically ) set in a future like Baran’s . They can be technologically and genetically enhanced . 