Anita Mazumdar Desai ( b. June 24 1937 ) is an Indian novelist and the John E. Burchard Professor of Humanities , Emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . She has been short - listed for the Booker prize three times . Her daughter , the author Kiran Desai , is the winner of the 2006 Booker prize . Born as Anita Mazumdar to a German mother , Toni Nime , and a Bengali businessman , D.N. Mazumdar ( ) in Mussoorie , India . She grew up speaking German at home and Bengali , Urdu , Hindi and English outside the house . She first learned to read and write in English at school and as a result it became her " literary language " ( ) . Despite German being her first language she did not visit Germany until later in life as an adult . She was a student at Queen Mary 's Higher Secondary School in Delhi and received her B.A. in English literature in 1957 from the University of Delhi ( Miranda House ) . The following year she married Ashvin Desai , a businessman . They raised four children ( ) . Desai published her first novel in 1963 , Cry The Peacock . She considers Clear Light Of Day ( 1980 ) her most autobiographical work as it is set during her coming of age and also in the same neighbourhood in which she grew up ( ) . In 1984 she published In Custody - - about an Urdu poet in his declining days - which was shortlisted for the Booker Prize . In 1993 she became a creative writing teacher at Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( ) . Her latest novel published in 2004 , The Zig Zag Way is set in 20th century Mexico . Desai has taught at Mount Holyoke College and Smith College . She is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature , the American Academy of Arts and Letters , and of Girton College , Cambridge University . In 1993 Merchant Ivory Productions released In Custody , directed by Ismail Merchant , with a screenplay by Shahrukh Husain . It won the 1994 President of India Gold Medal for Best Picture and stars the noted actors Shashi Kapoor , Shabana Azmi and Om Puri . Abrams , M.H and Stephen Greenblatt . The Norton Anthology of English Literature , Vol . 2C. , 7th Edition . New York : W.W. Norton , 2000:2768 - 2785 . Alter , Stephen and Wimal Dissanayake . The Penguin Book of Modern Indian Short Stories . New Delhi , Middlesex , New York : Penguin Books , 1991:92 - 101 . India’s 50 Most Illustrious Women . Selvadurai , Shyam ( ed. ) . New York : Houghton Mifflin , 2005:69 - 90 . 