Writer Ann Maxwell ( b. Ann Charters on April 5 , 1944 in Madison , Wisconsin ) , also known as A.E. Maxwell and Elizabeth Lowell , has individually , and with co - author and husband Evan , written over 50 novels and one non - fiction book . These novels range from science fiction to historical fiction , and from romance to mystery to suspense . Ann and Evan have been married for over 40 years . As a child , the former Ann Charters read primarily classic literature . She did not read her first science fiction novel until college , and was not exposed to other genres , such as romance , until even later . Maxwell earned a B.A. in English literature from the University of California in 1966 . Shortly thereafter , she married Evan Maxwell , a now former newspaper reporter who spent over fifteen years working for the LA Times , covering international crime . Early in their marriage , Maxwell became very bored . Her husband worked from 4:00 PM to midnight , and as there was no bus service near their house and Evan needed the car for work , Maxwell found herself alone at home with their toddler son . Maxwell did not like television and claims to have read all of the books in the local public library and did not have the money to purchase new books . To occupy herself , one day she seated herself in front of their ancient manual typewriter and began to write a book she would enjoy , even though she had no training in creative writing . When Maxwell finished her book , a science fiction novel , she submitted it to several publishers . Over nine months later she began to receive rejection letters for it . After finally finding an agent to represent her , she was able to sell her first book , Change . Ann Maxwell has written over 50 novels , some individually and some in collaboration with her husband . Her novels have been published in 21 foreign languages , and there are over 23 million copies of her books in print . Ann Maxwell began her writing career in the science fiction genre . Her first novel , Change , was published in 1975 . Over the next decade , eight other science fiction novels followed . Seven of those novels were recommended for the Science Fiction Writers of America Nebula Award , with the first coming within one vote of being a Nebula Award finalist . Another , A Dead God Dancing , was nominated for what was then called TABA ( The American Book Award ) . Ann and her husband Evan , in conjunction with Norwegian photographer Ivar Ruud , published the non - fiction work The Year - Long Day in 1976 . This book had been published in four countries and was condensed in Reader 's Digest . Several years later the couple began collaborating on a crime novel . This resulted in a series of books about a couple named Fiddler and Fiora , all published under the name A.E. Maxwell . The University of California gave one of the books , The Frog and the Scorpion , a creative writing award . Time Magazine named Just Enough Light to Kill , one of the best crime novels of 1988 . The couple have also produced four best - selling suspense novels . Although these books are the result of a collaboration , they are published as 