Ann Patchett ( born December 2 , 1963 ) is an American author . She received the Orange Prize for Fiction and the PEN / Faulkner Award in 2002 for her novel Bel Canto . Patchett 's other novels include The Patron Saint of Liars , Taft , and The Magician 's Assistant , which was shortlisted for the Orange Prize . She is the recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship and received the Nashville Banner Tennessee Writer of the Year Award in 1994 . She later attended the Iowa Writers ' Workshop and the The Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown , Massachusetts . It was there that she met longtime friend Elizabeth McCracken . It was also there that she wrote her first novel , The Patron Saint of Liars . Patchett 's first published work was in The Paris Review . She sold her story to the journal and had it published before she graduated from Sarah Lawrence . For nine years , Patchett worked at Seventeen magazine . She mostly wrote non - fiction , and the magazine would publish only one of every five articles she wrote . She ended her relationship with the magazine after getting into a fight with an editor and exclaiming " I’ll never darken your door again ! " . In 1992 , Patchett published The Patron Saint of Liars . The novel was made into a movie of the same title in 1998 . She released Taft , her second novel , in 1994 . The novel won the Janet Heidinger Kafka Prize in fiction . Her third novel , The Magician’s Assistant , was released in 1997 . Bel Canto , her fourth novel , was released in 2001 and won many awards , including the National Book Critics Circle Award and the PEN / Faulkner Award . She is known for her friendship with fellow writer Lucy Grealy and has written a memoir about their relationship , Truth and Beauty : A Friendship . This is also her first non - fiction book . Patchett 's next novel , Run , will be released in October 2007 . Patchett has written for numerous publications , including The New York Times Magazine , The Washington Post , O , The Oprah Magazine , ELLE , GQ , Gourmet , and Vogue . She is the editor of the 2006 volume of the anthology series The Best American Short Stories . Barnes & Noble . Ann Patchett 's Official Website . Internet Movie DataBase . 