This article is about the 19th - century author . For the 17th century benefactor of Harvard , see Ann ( Radcliffe ) Mowlson . Ann Radcliffe ( July 9 , 1764 - February 7 , 1823 ) was an English author , a pioneer of the gothic novel . Radcliffe was born Ann Ward in Holborn . She married William Radcliffe , an editor for the English Chronicle , at Bath in 1788 . The couple were childless . To amuse herself , she began to write fiction , which her husband encouraged . She published The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne in 1789 . It set the tone for the majority of her work , which tended to involve innocent , but heroic young women who find themselves in gloomy , mysterious castles ruled by even more mysterious barons with dark pasts . Her works were extremely popular among the upper class and the growing middle class , especially among young women . Her works included A Sicilian Romance ( 1790 ) , The Romance of the Forest ( 1791 ) , The Mysteries of Udolpho ( 1794 ) , and The Italian ( 1796 ) . The success of The Romance of the Forest established Radcliffe as the leading exponent of the historical Gothic romance . Her later novels met with even greater attention , and produced many imitators , and famously , Jane Austen 's burlesque of The Mysteries of Udolpho in Northanger Abbey , as well as influencing the works of Sir Walter Scott and Mary Wollstonecraft ( Writer of Philosophy ) . Stylistically , Radcliffe was noted for her vivid descriptions of exotic locales , though in reality the author had rarely or never visited the actual locations . She died on February 7 , 1823 from respiratory problems probably caused by pneumonia . Paul Féval , père used her as his protagonist in the novel La Ville Vampire ( translated as Vampire City ) . In the film Becoming Jane , she is portrayed by Helen McCrory . Edgar Allan Poe 's short story The Oval Portrait drew from Udolpho and mentions Radcliffe by name ( somewhat disparagingly ) in the introduction . The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne ( 1 volume ) , 1789 , gothic novel . A Sicilian Romance ( 2 vols. ) 1790 , gothic novel . The Romance of the Forest ( 3 vols. ) 1791 , gothic novel . The Mysteries of Udolpho ( 4 vols. ) 1794 . The Italian ( 3 vols. ) 1797 . 