Anna Laetitia Barbauld ( née Aikin ) ( June 20 , 1743—March 9 , 1825 ) was a prominent eighteenth - century British poet , essayist , and children 's author . As a " woman of letters " who published successfully in mulitple genres , Barbauld had a successful writing career at a time when such a thing was rare for a woman . She was a noted teacher at the celebrated Palgrave Academy and an innovative children 's writer ; her famous primers provided a model for " infant pedagogy " for more than a century . Her essays demonstrated that it was possible for a woman to be publicly engaged in politics , and she herself provided a model of the female writer for contemporaries to emulate . Even more importantly , her poetry was foundational to the development of Romanticism in England . Barbauld was also a literary critic and her anthology of eighteenth - century British novels helped to establish the canon as we know it today . Barbauld 's literary career ended abruptly in 1812 with the publication of her poem Eighteen Hundred and Eleven criticizing Britain 's participation in the Napoleonic Wars . The vicious reviews shocked Barbauld and she refused to publish anything else within her lifetime . Her reputation was further damaged when many of the Romantic poets she had inspired in the heyday of the French Revolution turned against her in their later , more conservative , years . Barbauld was remembered only as a pedantic children 's writer during the nineteenth century , and largely forgotten during the twentieth century , but the rise of feminist literary criticism in the 1980s renewed interest in her works and restored her place in literary history . Barbauld was born on 20 June 1743 at Kibworth Harcourt in Leicestershire , England . Her father , Reverend John Aikin , was headmaster of the Dissenting Kibworth Academy and minister at a nearby Presbyterian church . Her family 's residence at her father 's school afforded Barbauld the opportunity to learn Latin , Greek , French , Italian , and many other subjects deemed unsuitable for women at that time . Barbauld’s penchant for study worried her mother , who expected Barbauld to end up a spinster because of her intellectualism ; the two were never as close as Barbauld and her father . In 1758 , the family moved to the soon - to - be - famous Warrington Academy , in Warrington , where Barbauld’s father had been offered a teaching position . It drew many luminaries of the day , such as the scientist - philosopher Joseph Priestley , and came to be known as “the Athens of the North” for its rich intellectual atmosphere . One luminary may have been the French revolutionary Jean - Paul Marat ; school records suggest he was a “French master” there in the 1770s . He may also have been a suitor to the beautiful , accomplished Barbauld ; he allegedly wrote to John Aikin declaring his intention to become an English citizen and to marry her . Archibald Hamilton Rowan also fell in love with Barbauld and described her as , " possessed of great beauty , distinct traces of which she retained to the latest of her life . Despite her mother 's anxiety , Barbauld received many offers of marriage around this time—all of which she turned down . In 1773 , Barbauld published her first book of poems after they “had been handed round from friend to friend and had 