Anne Rice ( born on October 4 , 1941 ) is a best - selling American author of gothic and later religious themed books . Best known for her Vampire Chronicles , her prevailing thematical focus is on love , death , immortality , existentialism , and the human condition . She was married to poet Stan Rice for 41 years until his death in 2002 . Her books have sold nearly 100 million copies , making her one of the most widely read authors in modern history . Rice was born and spent most of her early life in New Orleans , Louisiana , which forms the background against which most of her stories take place . She was the second daughter in a Catholic Irish - American family ; Rice 's sister , Alice Borchardt , also became a noted genre author . About her unusual given name , Rice said : " My birth name is Howard Allen because apparently my mother thought it was a good idea to name me Howard . My father 's name was Howard , she wanted to name me after Howard , and she thought it was a very interesting thing to do . She was a bit of a Bohemian , a bit of mad woman , a bit of a genius , and a great deal of a great teacher . And she had the idea that naming a woman Howard was going to give that woman an unusual advantage in the world. " . Rice became " Anne " on her first day of school , when a nun asked her what her name was . She blurted out " Anne " immediately , and her mother , who was with her , let it go without correcting her , knowing how self - conscious her daughter was of her real name . Her father moved the family to north Texas , taking up residence in Richardson , in 1958 , when Rice was 16 , and she met Stan Rice , whom she would later marry , at Richardson High School . She began college at Texas Woman 's University in Denton , but relocated with Stan to California , where the couple put down roots in San Francisco , where Anne attended San Francisco State University and obtained a Master of Arts degree in creative writing . I was known as my own square. " . She would not return to New Orleans until 1989 . Rice and her husband had a daughter Michele , who was born on September 21 , 1966 and died of leukemia on August 5 , 1972 . Their son Christopher Rice , now a novelist , was born March 11 , 1978 . She completed her first book , Interview with the Vampire , in 1973 and published it in 1976 . This book would be the first in Rice 's popular Vampire Chronicles series , which includes 1985 's The Vampire Lestat and 1988 's The Queen of the Damned . Rice has also published adult - oriented fiction under the pen name Anne Rampling , and has written explicit sado - masochistic erotica as A.N. Roquelaure . Her fiction is often described as lush and descriptive , and her characters ' sexuality is fluid , often displaying homoerotic feelings towards each other . Rice said that the bisexuality was what she was looking for in her characters ; a love beyond gender especially with the Vampire Chronicles because the vampires were not of human society , therefore did 