Annelies Marie " Anne " Frank ( listen ( help·info ) ) ( June 12 , 1929 – early March 1945 ) was a Jewish girl who wrote a diary while in hiding with her family and four friends in Amsterdam during the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II . Born in Frankfurt , Germany , Frank and her family moved to Amsterdam in 1933 , after the Nazis gained power in Germany , and were trapped by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands . As persecutions against the Jewish population increased , the family went into hiding in July 1942 in hidden rooms in her father Otto Frank 's office building . After two years in hiding the group was betrayed and transported to concentration camps . Seven months after her arrest , Frank died of typhus in the Bergen - Belsen concentration camp within days of her sister , Margot Frank . Her father , Otto , the only survivor of the group , returned to Amsterdam after the war ended , to find that her diary had been saved . In 1947 he had it published in Dutch under the title Het Achterhuis : Dagboekbrieven van 12 Juni 1942 – 1 Augustus 1944 ( The Backhouse : Diary notes from 12 June 1942 – 1 August 1944 ) . A collection of her other writings recovered from the hiding place , Tales from the Secret Annex was published in 1949 . The diary , which was given to Frank on her thirteenth birthday , chronicles her life from June 12 , 1942 until August 1 , 1944 . It was published as The Diary of a Young Girl and eventually translated from its original Dutch into many languages and became one of the world 's most widely read books . There have also been several films , television , theatrical productions , and even an opera based on the diary . Described as the work of a mature and insightful mind , it provides an intimate examination of daily life under Nazi occupation and in hiding ; through her writing , Frank has become one of the most renowned and discussed of Holocaust victims . Anne Frank was born on June 12 1929 in Frankfurt am Main , Weimar Germany , the second daughter of Otto Heinrich Frank ( May 12 1889 – August 19 1980 ) and Edith Holländer ( January 16 1900–January 6 1945 ) . Her father sometimes called her " Annelein " ( " little Anne " ) . The Franks were Reform Jews and lived in an assimilated community of Jewish and non - Jewish citizens , where the children grew up with Catholic , Protestant , and Jewish friends . The Frank family did not observe all of the customs or traditions of Judaism . Edith Frank was the more devout parent , while Otto Frank , a decorated German officer from World War I , was interested in scholarly pursuits and had an extensive library ; both parents encouraged the children to read . On March 13 1933 , elections were held in Frankfurt for the municipal council , and Adolf Hitler 's Nazi Party won . Anti - Semitic demonstrations occurred almost immediately , and the Franks began to fear what would happen to them if they remained in Germany . Later in the year , Edith and the children went to Aachen , where they stayed with Edith 's mother , Rosa Holländer . Otto Frank remained in Frankfurt , but after receiving an offer 