Annie Dillard ( born 30 April 1945 in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania ) is a Pulitzer Prize - winning American author , best known for her narrative nonfiction . She has also published poetry , essays , literary criticism , autobiography , and fiction . She is married to the historical biographer Robert D. Richardson , Jr . Dillard describes her childhood at length in An American Childhood . She is the oldest of three daughters , born to affluent parents who raised her in an environment that encouraged humor , creativity , and exploration . Her mother was a non - conformist and incredibly energetic . Her father taught her everything from plumbing to economics to the intricacies of the novel On The Road . Dillard 's childhood was filled with days of piano and dance classes , rock and bug collecting , and devouring the books on the shelves of the public library . But there were also many troubles - - like the horrors of war , which she often read about . After graduating from high school , Dillard attended Hollins College , near Roanoke , Virginia , where she studied literature and creative writing . She married her writing teacher , the poet R. H. Dillard ( her maiden name is Doak ) - - the person she says " taught her everything she knows " about writing . In 1968 she graduated with a Masters in English , after writing a 40 - page thesis on Thoreau 's Walden , which focused on the use of Walden Pond as " the central image and focal point for Thoreau 's narrative movement between heaven and earth. " . The next couple of years after graduation Dillard spent painting and writing . During this time , she published several poems and short stories . Dillard 's family attended a Presbyterian church when she was a child and she spent a few summers at a fundamentalist summer camp . During her rebellious teenage years , she quit church because of the " hypocrisy. " . When she told her minister , he gave her a stack of books by C. S. Lewis , which ended this rebellion . After her college years , Dillard became , as she says , " spiritually promiscuous , " incorporating the ideas of many religious systems into her own religious understanding . Not only are there references to Christ and the Bible in her first prose book , Pilgrim at Tinker Creek , but also to Judaism , Buddhism , Sufism , and even Eskimo spirituality . In the 1990s , Dillard converted to Roman Catholicism . After a near - fatal bout of pneumonia in 1971 , Dillard decided that she needed to experience life more fully and began work on Pilgrim at Tinker Creek . She spent four seasons living near Tinker Creek , a suburban area surrounded by forests , creeks , mountains , and a myriad of animal life . When she was n't in the library , she spent her time outdoors , walking and camping . After living there for about a year , Dillard began to write about her experiences near the creek . She started by transposing notes from her twenty - plus - volume reading journal . It took her eight months to turn the notecards into the book . Towards the end of the eight months , she was so absorbed that she sometimes wrote for fifteen hours a day , cut off from society without interest in current events ( like 