Anthony Burgess ( February 25 , 1917 – November 22 , 1993 ) was a British novelist , critic and composer . He was also active as a librettist , poet , pianist , playwright , screenwriter , journalist , essayist , travel writer , broadcaster , translator , linguist and educationalist . Born in Harpurhey , Manchester in northwest England , he lived and worked variously in Southeast Asia , the United States and Mediterranean Europe . Burgess 's fiction includes the Malayan trilogy ( The Long Day Wanes ) , on the dying days of Britain 's empire in the East ; the Enderby quartet of comic novels about a reclusive poet and his muse ; Nothing Like the Sun , the classic speculative recreation of Shakespeare 's love - life ; the cult exploration of the nature of evil A Clockwork Orange ; and his masterpiece , Earthly Powers , a panoramic saga of the 20th century . He wrote critical studies of Joyce , Hemingway , Shakespeare and Lawrence , produced the treatises on linguistics Language Made Plain and A Mouthful of Air , and was a prolific journalist , writing in several languages . He translated and adapted Cyrano de Bergerac , Oedipus the King , and Carmen for the stage ; scripted Jesus of Nazareth and Moses the Lawgiver for the screen ; invented the prehistoric language spoken in Quest for Fire ; and composed the Sinfoni Melayu , the Symphony ( No. 3 ) in C , and the opera Blooms of Dublin . 14.17 Prefaces , etc . Burgess was born John Burgess Wilson on February 25 , 1917 in Harpurhey , a northeastern suburb of Manchester , to a Catholic father and a Catholic convert mother . He was known in childhood as Jack . Later , on his confirmation , the name Anthony was added and he became John Anthony Burgess Wilson . It was not until 1956 that he was to begin using the pen - name Anthony Burgess . His mother , Elizabeth Burgess Wilson , died when Burgess was one year old , a casualty of the 1918–1919 Spanish flu pandemic , which also took the life of his sister Muriel . Elizabeth , who is buried in a Protestant cemetery in Manchester ( the City of Manchester General Cemetery , Rochdale Road ) , had been a minor actress and dancer who appeared at Manchester music halls such as the Ardwick Empire and the Gentlemen 's Concert Rooms . Her stage name , according to Burgess , was " The Beautiful Belle Burgess " , but there has never been any independent verification of this — no playbills have yet been discovered that include the name . His grandmother , Mary - Ann Finnegan , is thought to have come from Tipperary . Burgess described his father , Joseph Wilson , as descended from an " Augustinian Catholic " background . Burgess 's father had a variety of means of earning a living , working at different times as an army corporal , a bookmaker , a pub piano - player , a pianist in movie theaters accompanying silent films , an encyclopedia salesman , a butcher , a cashier and a tobacconist . Burgess described his father , who later remarried a pub landlady , as " a mostly absent drunk who called himself a father " . The adjective he used to describe the relationship he had with his father was " lukewarm " . Burgess 's grandfather was half - Irish . Burgess 