Anton Szandor LaVey , born Howard Stanton Levey ( 11 April , 1930 – 29 October , 1997 ) was the founder and High Priest of the Church of Satan as well as a writer , occultist , musician , and actor . He is the author of The Satanic Bible and the founder of LaVeyan Satanism , a synthesized system of his understanding of human nature and the insights of philosophers who advocated materialism and individualism , for which he claimed no " supernatural inspiration” . LaVey viewed " Satan " not as a literal deity or entity , but as a historic and literary figure symbolic of Earthly values . The Satanic Bible | The Satanic Rituals | The Satanic Witch | The Devil 's Notebook | Satan Speaks ! . LaVey was born in Chicago , Illinois , to Gertrude Augusta Coulton and Michael Joseph Levey , a liquor distributor from Omaha , Nebraska . His family soon relocated to California where he spent most of his early life in the San Francisco Bay Area and later in Globe , Arizona . According to his biography , his ancestry can be traced to French , Alsatian , German , Russian , and Romanian stock . His parents supported the development of his musical abilities as he tried his hand at various instruments , his favorite being keyboards like the pipe organ and the calliope . LaVey 's biography tells of his dropping out of high school to join the circus and carnivals , first as a roustabout and cage boy in an act with the big cats , later as a musician playing the calliope . LaVey later noted that seeing many of the same men attending both the bawdy Saturday nights shows as well as the tent revival meetings on Sunday mornings supported his increasingly cynical view of religion . He later had many stints as an organist in bars , lounges , and nightclubs . While playing organ in Los Angeles burlesque houses , he reportedly had a brief affair with the still - unknown Marilyn Monroe as she was dancing at the Mayan Theater . This claim has been challenged by those who knew Monroe at the time as well as the manager of the Maya , Paul Valentine , who stated that she had never been one of his dancers nor had the theater ever been used as a burlesque house or for " bump and grind " shows . According to his biography , LaVey moved back to San Francisco where he worked for a while as a photographer for the Police Department . He also dabbled as a psychic investigator , looking into " 800 calls " referred to him by the police department . Later biographers have questioned whether LaVey ever worked with the police , as there are no surviving records substantiating the claim . LaVey met and married Carole Lansing , who bore him his first daughter , Karla LaVey , in 1952 . They divorced in 1960 after LaVey became entranced by Diane Hegarty . Hegarty and LaVey never married , but she was his companion for many years , and bore his second daughter , Zeena Galatea LaVey in 1963 . Becoming a local celebrity through his paranormal research and live performances as an organist ( including playing the Wurlitzer at the Lost Weekend cocktail lounge ) , he would attract many San Francisco notables to his parties . Guests included Carin de Plessin , Michael Harner , Chester A. Arthur III , Forrest J. Ackerman 