Anton Pavlovich Chekhov ( Russian : Анто́н Па́влович Че́хов , IPA : ) was a Russian short story writer and playwright . He was born in Taganrog , southern Russia , on 29 January 1860 , and died of tuberculosis at the health spa of Badenweiler , Germany , on 15 July 1904 . His brief playwriting career produced four classics , while his best short stories are held in high esteem by writers and critics . Chekhov practiced as a doctor throughout most of his literary career : " Medicine is my lawful wife , " he once said , " and literature is my mistress " . Chekhov renounced the theatre after the disastrous reception of The Seagull in 1896 ; but the play was revived to acclaim by Konstantin Stanislavsky 's Moscow Art Theatre , which subsequently also produced Uncle Vanya and premiered Chekhov’s last two plays , Three Sisters and The Cherry Orchard . These four works present a special challenge to the acting ensemble as well as to audiences , because in place of conventional action Chekhov offers a " theatre of mood " and a " submerged life in the text " . Not everyone appreciated that challenge : Leo Tolstoy reportedly told Chekhov , " You know , I cannot abide Shakespeare , but your plays are even worse " . Tolstoy did , however , admire Chekhov 's short stories . Chekhov had at first written stories only for the money , but as his artistic ambition grew , he made formal innovations which have influenced the evolution of the modern short story . His originality consists in an early use of the stream - of - consciousness technique , later exploited by Virginia Woolf and other modernists , combined with a disavowal of the moral finality of traditional story structure . He made no apologies for the difficulties this posed to readers , insisting that the role of an artist was to ask questions , not to answer them . Anton Chekhov was born on 29 January 1860 , the third of six surviving children , in Taganrog , Russia , a port on the Sea of Azov in southern Russia where his father , Pavel Yegorovich Chekhov , the son of a former serf , ran a grocery store . A choirmaster , religious fanatic , and keen flogger of his children , Pavel Chekhov has been seen as the model for his son 's many portraits of hypocrites . Chekhov 's mother , Yevgeniya , was an excellent storyteller who entertained the children with tales of her travels with her cloth - merchant father all over Russia . Let me ask you to recall that it was despotism and lying that ruined your mother 's youth . Despotism and lying so mutilated our childhood that it 's sickening and frightening to think about it . Remember the horror and disgust we felt in those times when Father threw a tantrum at dinner over too much salt in the soup and called Mother a fool . Chekhov attended a school for Greek boys , followed by the Taganrog gymnasium , now renamed the Chekhov Gymnasium , where he was kept down for a year at fifteen for failing a Greek exam . He sang at the Greek Orthodox monastery in Taganrog and in his father 's choirs . When my brothers and I used to stand in the middle of the church and sing the trio " May my prayer be exalted , " or " The Archangel 's Voice 