Anwar Maqsood Hameedi ( Urdu : انور مقصود حمیدی ) commonly known as Anwar Maqsood ( Urdu : انور مقصود ) or Anwer Maqsood is one of Pakistan 's most famous celebrities with over 35 years in the entertainment industry . He is an intellectual , playwright , poet , television host , satirist , humorist , infrequent actor and long time painter . Anwar Maqsood is a versatile Artist of PTV and has now become a household name . He has tried his hand on a variety of subjects focusing on important issues prevalent in our society . Studio Dhai and then Studio Poneyteen along with Shoosha and numerous other shows , displayed his talent as a compère with pungent and spicy comments . Almost all the shows conducted by Anwar Maqsood were appreciated by viewers . The plays he writes unfold many sensitive issues and unveil social weaknesses very powerfully with solid tongue - in - cheek statements . The best thing about Anwar Maqsood 's writing is that it tackles hard subjects in lighter vein , which has proved an effective tool . He has command equally over all the disciplines of performing arts . He is a painter of national repute and writer - actor of class , known for his satire and humour . He is an advocate of sophisticated humour , with numerous contributions for Television to his credit . Skilled and dedicated hardwork has made quality writing his hallmark . Also , Anwar Maqsood has done programmes of varid nature both in the realm of entertainment and for mass awareness , as well . His typical style of comparing and communicative double edge sentences compel the viewers to get glued to mini - box . He does not believe in run - of - the - mill treatment in any field . With a career that spreads over a large span , Anwar Maqsood is some one that Pakistan could be proud of . He is every one 's favourite because of his departure from the conventional style of compering and writing . Anwar Maqsood is noe consider a stalwart in the field of compering and writing scripts . He belongs to one of the most famous and talented families in Pakistan . His famous sisters include Fatima Surayya Bajia , Zohra Nigah and Zubaida Tariq ( cooking expert ) . His son Bilal Maqsood is a pop singer . 