Archbishop LeRoy Bailey Jr. is a pastor , author and Memphis , Tennesee native . He serves as the senior pastor of The First Cathedral , a megachurch in Bloomfield , Connecticut . His accomplishments have led him to being adopted as a paternal figure for several pastors and bishops . LeRoy Bailey Jr . ’s was born April 25th 1946 , the second of three children from the union of LeRoy Bailey Sr. and Mrs. Vernada Breathett - Bailey.LeRoy Bailey Sr. was a steel technician and often traveled . Mrs. Bailey served as a secretary at the Golden Leaf Baptist Church in Memphis Tennessee . After the birth of their second daughter the marital union dissolved . Despite this termoil , LeRoy received Jesus Christ at the age of seven . L. A Hamblin having no biological children , him and his wife acted as paternal figures for the remainder of his childhood . It was during the period of Hamblin ' tutorship and mentorship , LeRoy grew spiritually . This growth was made public in the preaching of his first sermon entitled " Going into all the world " . His growth earned him the right tour with L.A. Hamblin traveling the southern portion of the United States preaching and teaching at several conferences . Hamblin is considered by Bailey to be one of the men few men that influnced his ministry . Bailey feels that as a result of Hamblin 's kindness in adopting him as his son , he can adopt other men and women to become his children . In 1971 , he was called to be the second pastor of the 1st Baptist Church , in Hartford , Connecticut . At the time of his arrival there were barely two hundred members . In the following years , the membership has increased to well over 11,000 Under his leadership the church has established Missions locally , nationally and internationally . These Missions included an Elementary School , Bookstore and a forum for church leaders , entitled : Churches Covered and Connected in Covenant . He led the financial campaigns throughout the 1980s and 1990s for the construction of the 120,000 square - foot facility , known as The First Cathedral . In 2001 , The Rev. Dr. LeRoy Bailey Jr. was consecrated into the Bishopric , Becoming known as Bishop LeRoy Bailey Jr . In 2003 , he authored the book , A Solid Foundation : Building Your Life from the Ground Up . . In the year 2006 , Bishop LeRoy Bailey was appointed Archbishop after the suggestion of Archbishop Ranier Laufers , the chief consecrator at his 2001 elevation . Despite general trend of individuals in his position as an Archbishop he continues to actively pastor The First Cathedral . The Archbishop for 32 years has been married to Mrs. Reathie Bailey , Together they have 3 grown children and three grandchildren . Honorary Doctor of Divinity from Tennessee Baptist School of Religion , Nashville , TN . Honorary Doctorate Degree from Biblical Life College and Seminary , Marshville , Missouri . The First Cathedral - - Visitors’ Handbook . Bloomfield : TFC , 1999 . The First Cathedral - - Visitors’ Handbook . Bloomfield : TFC , 1999 . 