Arianna Huffington ( born Arianna Stassinopoulos ( Greek : Αριάννα Στασινόπουλου ) on July 15 , 1950 in Athens , Greece ) is an author and nationally syndicated columnist in the United States . Huffington describes herself as a " former right - winger who has evolved into a compassionate and progressive populist " . She is the founder of The Huffington Post , an online news and commentary website and aggregated blog . Her latest book is On Becoming Fearless . . . . in Love , Work , and Life . Huffington is the daughter of Konstantinos ( a journalist and management consultant ) and Elli ( Georgiadi ) Stassinopoulos , and the sister of Agapi ( an author , speaker and performer ) . She moved to England at the age of 16 , and attended Girton College at Cambridge University where she was President of the Cambridge Union Society in 1971 and graduated with an MA in economics in 1972 . After graduation , she moved to London and lived with the journalist and broadcaster Bernard Levin , whom she had met while the two were panelists on the TV show Face the Music . She met millionaire Michael Huffington at a 1985 party hosted by Ann Getty in San Francisco . The couple were married in 1986 . They moved to Washington , D.C. , when he was appointed to the Department of Defense . They later established residency in Santa Barbara , California , in order for him to run in 1992 as a Republican for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives , which he won by a significant margin . He was a political conservative , although he had publicly supported gays in the military . In 1994 he narrowly lost the race for the U.S. Senate seat from California to incumbent Dianne Feinstein . The couple divorced in 1997 , and in 1998 Michael Huffington disclosed his bisexuality . The financial terms of their divorce agreement remain undisclosed , but Huffington gained much of her wealth from her husband . Arianna Huffington chose to retain her former husband 's surname , although she had been known as Arianna Stassinopoulos Huffington during the period of her marriage . In 1996 , Huffington and politically liberal comedian Al Franken participated as Strange Bedfellows in Comedy Central 's coverage of the 1996 U.S. presidential election . For her work , she and the writing team of Politically Incorrect with Bill Maher were nominated for an Emmy , for Outstanding Writing for a Variety or Music Program . She has also made a few forays into acting with roles on shows such as " Roseanne " and " Help me Help You " . Huffington 's shift in political ideology was purportedly inspired by her Left , Right & Center segment colleague , Robert Scheer , her friend Al Franken , and her belief that the Republican Party does not do enough to help the less fortunate . Huffington 's political transition coincided with the crisis in the Balkans during the 1990s . Huffington was a strong , vocal opponent of American intervention against the Serbians during the Bosnian and Kosovo wars . In 2000 , she instigated the ' Shadow Conventions ' , which appeared at the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia and the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles . To one of the attendees at the Shadow Convention in Philadelphia , State Representative Mark B. Cohen of Philadelphia , " the subjects of the Shadow Convention—campaign finance reform , reform of 