In this Japanese name , the family name is Arishima . Arishima Takeo ( 有島 武郎 , Arishima Takeo ? ) ( 4 March 1878 – 9 June , 1923 ) was a novelist , short - story writer and essayist during the late Meiji and Taisho periods . His two younger brothers , Arishima Ikuma ( 有島生馬 ) and Satomi Ton ( 里美弴 ) were also authors . Arishima was born in Tokyo into a wealthy family as the son of an ex - samurai official in the Ministry of Finance . He was first sent to a mission school in Yokohama , where he was taught English , after which he entered preparatory school of the prestigious Gakushuin peer 's school , when he was 10 years old . After he graduated from the Gakushuin at age 19 , he entered the Sapporo Agricultural College ( the present - day Faculty of Agriculture at Hokkaido University ) . During his studies at the university , he attempted suicide with Morimoto Kokichi ( 森本厚吉 ) , who later went on to establish several women 's schools in Japan . The suicide failed , and Arishima subsequently became influenced by Uchimura Kanzō and became a Christian in 1901 . After graduation and a mandatory short stint in the Imperial Japanese Army , Arishima took English lessons from Mary Elkinton Nitobe , Inazo Nitobe 's wife , and in July 1903 , he obtained a position as a foreign correspondent in the United States for the Mainichi shimbun . In the United States he enrolled at Haverford College ( a Quaker institution outside of Philadelphia ) and later Harvard University . After graduation , he briefly worked in an insane asylum operated by the Quaker sect . He recorded his experiences from his journey to America in his diary . During his time in America , he became critical towards Christianity , attracted to socialism , and influenced by the works of writers such as Walt Whitman , Henrik Ibsen , and Peter Kropotkin . His time and experiences in America and subsequent year in Europe also profoundly influenced his writing style and his outlook on the world , resulting in feelings of alienation from Japanese society . After he returned to Japan in 1907 , he reentered the army briefly before becoming an English and ethics teacher in 1909 at his alma mater . Through his brother Arishima Ikuma , he also became acquainted with authors who graduated from the Gakushuin , including Shiga Naoya and Mushanokoji Saneatsu . Arishima and these writers formed a group , which was named after their literary magazine Shirakaba ( 白樺 , White Birch ? ) , which was first published in 1911 . He wrote novels and criticisms and was known as one of the central figures in the Shirakaba group . In 1909 , Arishima published his best - known work : A Certain Woman ( 或る女 , Aru Onna ? ) , a moral and psychological melodrama about a strong - willed woman struggling against a hypocritical male - dominated society . In this work , and in subsequent novels , such as The Descendents of Cain ( カインの末裔 , Kain no Matsuei ? ) ( 1917 ) he depicts God’s curse on both man and nature through the eyes of a self - destructive tenant farmer . While critically acclaimed for his style , the themes and characters of Arishima’s works did not appeal to many contemporary Japanese readers . In 1922 , Arishima implemented the socialist philosophy he had 