Arthur Asher Miller ( October 17 , 1915 – February 10 , 2005 ) was an American playwright and essayist . At the time of his death , Miller was considered one of the greatest American playwrights . Arthur Miller was born to moderately affluent Jewish - American parents , Isidore and Augusta Miller , , in Harlem , New York City , in 1915 . His father owned a women 's clothes / coat - manufacturing business , which failed in the after which his family moved to humbler quarters in Brooklyn . Because of the effects of the Great Depression on his family , Miller had no money for college after graduating in 1932 from Abraham Lincoln High School ( New York ) . After securing a place at the University of Michigan , he worked in a number of menial jobs to pay for his tuition . At the University of Michigan , Miller first majored in journalism , where he became the reporter and night editor on the student paper , the Michigan Daily . It was during this time that he wrote his first work , No Villain . After winning the Avery Hopwood Award for No Villain , Miller switched his major to English , where he met Professor Kenneth Rowe , who aided Miller in his early forays into playwrighting . Miller retained strong ties to his alma mater throughout the rest of his life , establishing the university 's Arthur Miller Award in 1985 and Arthur Miller Award for Dramatic Writing in 1999 , and lending his name to the Arthur Miller Theatre in 2000 . In 1937 , Miller wrote Honors at Dawn , which also received the Avery Hopwood Award . In 1938 , Miller received his bachelor 's degree in English . After graduation , he joined the Federal Theater Project , a New Deal agency established to provide jobs in the theater . He chose the theater project although he had an offer to work as a scriptwriter for 20th Century Fox . However , Congress , worried about possible Communist infiltration , closed the project . Miller began working in the Brooklyn Navy Yard while continuing to write radio plays , some of which were broadcast on CBS . On August 5 1940 , he married his college sweetheart , Mary Slattery , the Catholic daughter of an insurance salesman . The couple had two children , Jane and Robert . Robert became a director , writer and producer whose was , among other things , producer of the 1996 movie version of The Crucible . Miller was exempted from military service during World War II because of a high - school football injury to his left kneecap . In 1944 Miller wrote The Man Who Had All the Luck , which was produced in New York and won the Theatre Guild 's National Award . Despite this critical success , the play closed after only six performances . The next few years were difficult for Miller : He published his first novel , Focus , to little acclaim and adapted George Abbott 's and John C. Holm 's Three Men on a Horse for television . Things changed in 1947 , when Miller 's All My Sons was produced at the Coronet Theatre . The play was directed by Elia Kazan , with whom Miller would have a continuing professional and personal relationship , and ran for three hundred and twenty - eight performances . All My Sons won the New York Drama Critics Circle Award 