Arthur Machen ( IPA pronunciation : ) ( March 3 , 1863 – December 15 , 1947 ) was a leading Welsh author of the 1890s . He is best known for his influential supernatural , fantasy , and horror fiction . He also is well known for his leading role in creating the legend of the Angels of Mons . Machen was born Arthur Llewelyn Jones , in Caerleon ( now part of Newport ) , Monmouthshire , though he usually referred to the county by its Welsh name Gwent . His father , John Edward Jones , became vicar of the tiny church of Llandewi Fach , near Caerleon , and his son was brought up at the rectory there . Later his father adopted his mother 's maiden name , Machen , to inherit a legacy , becoming " Jones - Machen " , and his son just used the name Arthur Machen as a pen - name . Machen 's love of the beautiful landscape of Monmouthshire with its associations with Celtic , Roman , and medieval history made a powerful impression on him which is at the heart of many of his works . At the age of eleven , Machen boarded at Hereford Cathedral School , where he received an excellent classical education . Family poverty ruled out attendance at university , and Machen was sent to London , where he sat exams to attend medical school but failed to get in . Machen , however , showed literary promise , publishing in 1881 a long poem " Eleusinia " on the subject of the Eleusinian Mysteries . Returning to London , he lived in relative poverty , attempting to work as a journalist , as a publisher 's clerk , and as a children’s tutor while writing in the evening and going on long rambling walks across London . In 1884 , he published his second work , the pastiche The Anatomy of Tobacco , and secured work with the publisher and bookseller George Redway as a cataloguer and magazine editor . This led to further work as a translator from French , translating the Heptameron of Marguerite de Navarre , Le Moyen de Parvenir ( Fantastic Tales ) of Béroalde de Verville , and the Memoirs of Casanova . Machen 's translations in a spirited English style became standard ones for many years . In 1887 , Machen married Amy Hogg , an unconventional music teacher with a passion for the theatre , who had literary friends in London 's Bohemian circles . Hogg had introduced Machen to the writer and occultist A. E. Waite , who was to become one of Machen 's closest friends . Machen also made the acquaintance of other literary figures , such as M. P. Shiel and Edgar Jepson . Soon after his marriage , Machen began to receive a series of legacies from Scottish relatives that allowed him to gradually devote more time to writing . Around 1890 Machen began to publish in literary magazines , writing stories influenced by the works of Robert Louis Stevenson , some of which used gothic or fantastic themes . This led to his first major success , " The Great God Pan " . It was published in 1894 by John Lane in the noted Keynotes Series , which was part of the growing aesthetic movement of the time . Machen’s story was widely denounced for its sexual and horrific content and subsequently sold well , going into a second edition . Machen next produced The Three Impostors 