Sir Arthur Ignatius Conan Doyle , DL ( 22 May , 1859 – 7 July , 1930 ) was a Scottish born author most noted for his stories about the detective Sherlock Holmes , which are generally considered a major innovation in the field of crime fiction , and the adventures of Professor Challenger . He was a prolific writer whose other works include science fiction stories , historical novels , plays and romances , poetry , and non - fiction . Arthur Conan Doyle was born on 22 May 1859 , in Edinburgh , Scotland , to an English father , Charles Altamont Doyle , and an Irish mother , Mary Foley , who had married in 1855 . Although he is now referred to as ' Conan Doyle ' , the origin of this compound surname is uncertain . Conan Doyle 's father was an artist , as were his paternal uncles ( one of whom was Richard Doyle ) , and his paternal grandfather John Doyle . Conan Doyle was sent to the Roman Catholic Jesuit preparatory school St Marys Hall , Stonyhurst , at the age of nine years old . He then went on to Stonyhurst College , but by the time he left the school in 1875 , he had rejected Christianity to become an agnostic . From 1876 to 1881 he studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh , including a period working in the town of Aston ( now a district of Birmingham ) . While studying , he also began writing short stories ; his first published story appeared in Chambers 's Edinburgh Journal before he was 20 . Following his term at university he served as a ship 's doctor on a voyage to the West African coast , and then in 1882 he set up a practice in Plymouth . He achieved his doctorate concerning Tabes Dorsalis in 1885 . He took up medical practice in Portsmouth in 1882 . His medical practice was initially not very successful ; while waiting for patients , he again began writing stories . His first significant work was A Study in Scarlet , which appeared in Beeton 's Christmas Annual for 1887 and featured the first appearance of Sherlock Holmes , who was partially modelled after his former university professor , Joseph Bell . Future short stories featuring Sherlock Holmes were published in the English magazine The Strand . Interestingly , Rudyard Kipling congratulated Conan Doyle on his success , asking " Could this be my old friend , Dr. Joe ? " . Sherlock Holmes , however , was even more closely modelled after the famous Edgar Allan Poe character , C. Auguste Dupin . While living in Southsea he played for an amateur side that disbanded in 1894 and had no connection to the Portsmouth F.C. of today . In 1885 he married Louisa ( or Louise ) Hawkins , known as " Touie " , who suffered from tuberculosis and died on July 4 , 1906 . He married Jean Leckie in 1907 , whom he had first met and fallen in love with in 1897 but had maintained a platonic relationship with her out of loyalty to his first wife . Conan Doyle had five children , two with his first wife ( Mary Louise ( born 1889 ) and Alleyne Kingsley ( 1892 – 1918 ) , and three with his second wife ( Jean Lena Annette , Denis Percy Stewart ( March 17 , 1909 – March 9 , 1955 ) , second husband in 1936 