Suzanna Arundhati Roy ( born November 24 , 1961 ) is an Indian novelist , writer and activist . She won the Booker Prize in 1997 for her first novel , The God of Small Things , and , in 2002 , the Lannan Cultural Freedom Prize . Roy was born in Shillong , Meghalaya to a Keralite Syrian Christian mother , the women 's rights activist Mary Roy , and a Bengali Hindu father , a tea planter by profession . She spent her childhood in Aymanam in Kerala , and went to school in Corpus Christi , Kottayam , followed by The Lawrence School , Lovedale in the Nilgiris , Tamil Nadu . She then studied architecture at the School of Planning and Architecture , New Delhi , where she met her first husband , architect Gerard DaCunha . Roy met her second husband , filmmaker Pradip Krishen , in 1984 , and became involved in film - making under his influence . She played a village girl in the award - winning movie Massey Sahib . Roy is a niece of the prominent media personality Prannoy Roy and lives in New Delhi . Roy began writing her first novel , The God of Small Things in 1992 , completing it in 1996 . The book is semi - autobiographical and a major part captures her childhood experiences in Ayemenem . The book received the 1997 Man Booker Prize for Fiction , was listed as one of the New York Times Notable Books of the Year for 1997 . The book reached fourth position in the New York Times Bestsellers list for Independent Fiction . She received half a million pounds as an advance , and rights to the book were sold in 21 countries . The God of Small Things received good reviews , including one from John Updike in The New Yorker . Carmen Callil , chair of the Booker judges panel in 1996 though , called The God of Small Things " an execrable book " and said it should never have reached the shortlist . Roy wrote the screenplays for In Which Annie Gives it Those Ones ( 1989 ) and Electric Moon ( 1992 ) and a television serial The Banyan Tree . She also wrote the documentary DAM / AGE : A Film with Arundhati Roy ( 2002 ) . In early 2007 , Roy announced she would begin work on a second novel . The God of Small Things is the only novel written by Roy . She has since devoted herself solely to nonfiction and politics , publishing two more collections of essays , as well as working for social causes . She is a figure - head of the anti - globalization / alter - globalization movement and a vehement critic of neo - imperialism and of the global policies of the United States . She also criticizes India 's nuclear weapons policies and the approach to industrialization and rapid development as currently being practiced in India , including the Narmada Dam project and the power company Enron 's activities in India . Roy has campaigned along with activist Medha Patkar against the Narmada dam project , saying that the dam will displace half a million people , with little or no compensation , and will not provide the projected irrigation , drinking water and other benefits . Arundhati Roy 's opposition to the Narmada Dam project has been criticised as " anti - Gujarat " by Gujarat state Youth Congress president Himmatsinh Patel and Anandiben Patel , a 