Ashok Kumar Banker ( born February 7 , 1964 ) is a novelist born and living in Mumbai , India . Banker was born in Mumbai , India on February 7 , 1964 . He began writing professionally in his early teens , and has worked as a door - to - door surveyor for market research firms , a print journalist , columnist , scriptwriter for television series and documentaries , and in advertising . Banker has published in several genres , ranging from contemporary fiction about urban life in India to multi - volume mythological epics , as well as science fiction , fantasy , and cross - genre works . His first three novels to be published ( though not the first written ) were crime thrillers , hailed by the India media as the first written by an Indian novelist in English . They gained him widespread attention and a reputation for being a crime novelist that clung to him for several years despite his not having written crime novels since , though he has written short crime fiction , some of which involves characters from the novels . The stories of his " Devi " series are short works featuring avatars of the Hindu goddess Devi , and have appeared in various science fiction , fantasy , and horror magazines . Now , however , he is best known for his retelling of the epic Sanskrit poem , Ramayana . Three of his novels contain autobiographical elements and are closely related to one another . His first novel ( though the fourth published ) Vertigo is about a man struggling to make a successful career and home life in Bombay ( the former name of Mumbai ) . Byculla Boy takes its name from the Byculla suburb of Bombay where he and his mother grew up . Beautiful Ugly and the complementary documentary of the same title are a tribute to his mother , portraying the tragic events of her life . Banker is currently working on a retelling of the major myths and historical legends of India , that began with his six - volume retelling in English of the Indian epic of the Ramayana that has gained him worldwide attention and is being developed into a series of major motion pictures . The story of a legendary Indian prince named Rama Chandra , his Ramayana series proposes a philosophical theme linking all the major myths , legends and ' itihasa ' of India into one continuous storyline from the oldest times to the present day , transcending religion , caste , sex , and all other differences to seek out the quintessential humanistic core of the Indian character . Banker 's own mixed - origins - - he is of mixed religious and racial parentage , diverse cultural and nationalistic influences and radical liberal humanist outlook informs the series with a freshness and modern sensibility that has never before been attempted in similar Indian epics . The six - volume Ramayana series storyline is continued directly in the forthcoming Sword of Dharma and the Krishnavatara series . This in turn leads directly into his ambitious Mahabharata epic retelling , in nine double - size volumes . It is said to be followed by a multiple - volume Epic India series that continues the quest for Indian identity though a retelling of Indian historical events following the Mahabharata , upto the present day . Another project by the prolific author is a graphic novel adaptation of his " Devi " tales , being developed 