Astrid Anna Emilia Lindgren ( listen to pronunciation ( help·info ) , née Ericsson , November 14 1907 – January 28 2002 ) was a Swedish children 's book author and screenwriter , whose many titles were translated into 85 languages and published in more than 100 countries . She wrote the Pippi Longstocking books . Astrid Lindgren grew up in Näs , near Vimmerby , Småland , and many of her books are based on her family and childhood memories . Pippi Longstocking , her most famous character , however , was originally invented by her bed - ridden daughter , Karin . Lindgren was the daughter of Samuel August Ericsson and Hanna Johnsson . She had two sisters . Her brother , Gunnar Ericsson , was a member of the Swedish parliament . Upon finishing school , Lindgren took a job with the a local newspaper in Vimmerby . When Astrid became pregnant with the chief editor 's child , the editor proposed marriage . Astrid demurred , and gave birth to her son Lars in 1926 in Copenhagen while unmarried . In 1926 , Lindgren moved to Stockholm , learning to become a typist and stenographer . In 1931 she married her boss , Sture Lindgren ( 1898 - 1952 ) . Three years later , in 1934 , Lindgren gave birth to her second child , Karin , who later became a translator . The family moved in 1941 to an apartment in Dalagatan , with a view over Vasaparken , where Astrid lived until her death . Astrid Lindgren died in 2002 , at the age of 94 . Following her death the government of Sweden instituted the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award in her memory . The award is the world 's largest monetary award for children 's and youth literature , in the amount of five million SEK . In 1944 Lindgren won second prize in a competition held by the newly founded publishing house Rabén & Sjögren with her novel named Britt - Marie lättar sitt hjärta ( Britt - Marie unburdens her heart ) . A year later she won first prize in the same competition with the children 's book Pippi Långstrump ( Pippi Longstocking ) , which has since become one of the most beloved children 's books in the world . She had already sent Pippi Longstocking to the Bonniers publishing house but was rejected . While Lindgren almost immediately became a much appreciated writer , the irreverent attitude towards adult authority that is a distinguishing characteristic of many of her characters has occasionally drawn the ire of some conservatives . The ladies ' magazine Damernas Värld sent Lindgren to the USA in 1948 to write short essays . Upon arrival she is said to have been upset by the discrimination against African Americans . A few years later she published the book Kati in America , a collection of short essays inspired by the trip . In 1967 , Rabén & Sjögren established an annual literary prize , the Astrid Lindgren Prize , in connection with her 60th birthday . The prize , SEK 40,000 , is awarded to a Swedish - language children 's author , every year on Astrid Lindgren 's birthday in November . The collection of Astrid Lindgren 's original manuscripts in Kungliga Biblioteket ( the Royal Library ) , Stockholm , was placed on UNESCO 's World heritage list in 2005 . In 1976 , a scandal arose in Sweden when Lindgren 's marginal tax rate was publicized to have risen to 102 