Augustus Le Plongeon ( 1826 - 1908 ) was a photographer , antiquarian and amateur archaeologist . He studied the pre - Columbian ruins of America , particularly those of the Maya civilization on the northern Yucatán Peninsula . While his writings contain many eccentric notions which were discredited by later researchers , Le Plongeon left a lasting legacy in his photographs documenting the ancient ruins . He wrote a lengthy history of Maya culture , going so far as to propose a theory that Maya had founded Ancient Egypt , a theory which has since been discredited by the scientific community . In general , his theories were considered to be somewhat outlandish by near - contemporaries and later Mayanist scholars such as Désiré Charnay , Teoberto Maler and Alfred Maudslay , and he is regarded today as one of the more eccentric characters to have worked in the field . However , as a pioneer in producing photographic records of Maya sites and inscriptions , Le Plongeon 's works and images retain at least a curio value to later researchers and in several cases preserve the appearance of sites and objects which were subsequently damaged . Le Plongeon was born on the island of Jersey on May 4 , 1826 . He attended and graduated from Ecole Polytechnique in Paris . After graduation , at the age of 19 , he sailed to South America and was caught in a shipwreck off the coast of Chile . While there he settled in Valparaiso and taught mathematics , drawing , and languages at a local college . In 1849 , news of the California gold rush reached him , and he sailed to San Francisco to work as a surveyor , and also apprenticed to became a doctor of medicine . One of his accomplishments as a surveyor included drawing a plan for the layout of the town of Marysville , California in the Central Valley in 1851 . He then moved to England and studied photography later in 1851 . After learning photography , he returned to San Francisco in 1855 to open a daguerreotype portrait studio on Clay Street . In 1862 , he traveled to Lima , Peru and opened yet another photography studio and an " electro - hydropathic " medical clinic . Le Plongeon started full time research on the Maya civilization , and pioneered the use of photography as a tool for his studies . He began using the wet collodion glass - plate negative process he used for studio portraits to record his exploration . He traveled extensively all over Peru for eight years visiting and photographing the ancient ruins , including making photographs for E. G. Squier 's expedition . In 1870 , he left Peru and traveled back once again to San Francisco where he gave a number of illustrated lectures at the California Academy of Sciences on Peruvian archaeology and the causes of earthquakes . His travels then continued on to New York , and by 1871 he was at the British Museum in London studying Mesoamerican manuscripts . His reading of the works of the French scholar Charles Etienne Brasseur de Bourbourg culminated in a stirring belief that civilization had its origins in the New World . While in London he met and married Alice Dixon , the woman with whom he would collaborate for the rest of his life . Alice , born in London in 1851 , had been well educated , and also taught the art of photography by her father Henry Dixon - a 