Banana Yoshimoto ( よしもと ばなな , Yoshimoto Banana ? , born July 24 , 1964 , in Tokyo ) is the pen name of Mahoko Yoshimoto ( 吉本 真秀子 Yoshimoto Mahoko ) , a Japanese contemporary writer . She writes her name in hiragana . This article does not cite any references or sources . Please help ] improve this article ] by adding citations to reliable sources . Unverifiable material may be challenged and removed . Yoshimoto , daughter of Takaaki Yoshimoto ( also known as Ryūmei Yoshimoto , one of the most famous and influential Japanese philosophers and critics of the 1960s ) , was born in Tokyo on July 24 , 1964 . Along with having a famous father , Banana Yoshimoto 's sister , Haruno Yoiko is a well - known cartoonist in Japan . Growing up in a liberal family , she learned the value of independence from a young age . She graduated from Nihon University 's Art College , majoring in Literature . During that time , she took the pseudonym " Banana , " a name she recognizes as both " cute " and " purposefully androgynous. " . Despite her success , Yoshimoto remains a somewhat down - to - earth and obscure figure . Whenever she appears in public she eschews make - up and dresses simply . She seems impervious to bad reviews — her novels sell incredibly well neverthless . She keeps her personal life guarded , and reveals little about her certified Rolfer husband and son Manachinko ( born in 2003 ) . Instead , she talks about her writing . Each day she takes half an hour to write at her computer , and she says " I tend to feel guilty because I write these stories almost for fun. " . She keeps an on - line journal for her English - speaking fans . Yoshimoto began her writing career while working as a waitress at a golf - club restaurant in 1987 . She names American author Stephen King as one of her first major influences , and drew inspiration especially from his non - horror stories . As her writing progressed , she was further influenced by the more literary Truman Capote and Isaac Bashevis Singer . Her debut novel , Kitchen , was a phenomenal instant success , with over sixty printings in Japan alone . There have been two films made of the story , a Japanese TV movie and a more widely released version produced in Hong Kong by Yim Ho in 1997 . She won the 6th Kaien Newcomer Writers Prize in November 1987 , the Umitsubame First Novel Prize , and then the 16th Izumi Kyoka Literary Prize in January 1988 for Kitchen . Another one of her novels , Goodbye Tsugumi , was also made into a movie in 1990 , directed by Jun Ichikawa . The novel received mixed reviews . Critics think that much of her work is superficial and commercial ; her fans however , think it perfectly captures what it means to be young and frustrated in modern Japan . Yoshimoto herself identifies her two main themes as " the exhaustion of young people in contemporary Japan " and " the way in which terrible experiences shape a person 's life. " . Her novels can be fun and escapist , but are always touched with traditional Japanese ideology . Her writing can be quite piercing , haunting , poignant , and darkly humorous all at once . Though critics believe her to 