Dame Mary Barbara Hamilton Cartland DBE CStJ ( 9 July 1901 – 21 May 2000 ) was one of the most successful writers of romance novels of all time , specialising in historical love themes . She also became one of the United Kingdom 's most popular media personalities , appearing often at public events and on television , dressed in her trademark pink and discoursing on love , health and social issues . Born at 31 Augustus Road , Edgbaston , Birmingham , she was the only daughter and eldest child of a British army officer , Major Bertram Cartland , and his wife , Mary ( Polly ) Hamilton Scobell . Though she was born into an enviable degree of middle - class comfort , the family 's security was severely shaken after the suicide of her paternal grandfather , James Cartland , a financier , who shot himself in the wake of bankruptcy . This was followed soon after by her father 's death on a Flanders battlefield in World War I . However , her enterprising mother opened a London dress shop to make ends meet — " Poor I may be , " Polly Cartland once remarked , " but common I am not " — and to raise Cartland and her two brothers , Anthony and Ronald , both of whom were eventually killed in battle , one day apart , in 1940 . After attending Malvern Girls ' College and Abbey House , an educational institution in Hampshire , Cartland soon became successful as a society reporter and writer of romantic fiction . Cartland admitted she was inspired in her early work by the novels of Edwardian author Elinor Glyn , whom she idolised and eventually befriended . See also List of books by Barbara Cartland . After a year as a gossip columnist for the Daily Express , Cartland published her first novel , Jigsaw ( 1923 ) , a slightly naughty society thriller that became a bestseller . She also began writing and producing somewhat racy plays , one of which , Blood Money ( 1926 ) , was banned by the Lord Chamberlain 's Office . In the 1920s and ' 30s Cartland was one of the leading young hostesses in London society , noted for her beauty , energetic charm and daring parties . Her fashion sense also had a part in launching her fame . She was in fact one of the first clients of designer Sir Norman Hartnell , who was later appointed dressmaker to Queen Elizabeth II . Barbara Cartland 's image as a self - appointed " expert " on romance drew some ridicule in her later years , when her social views became more conservative . Indeed , although her first novels were considered sensational , Barbara Cartland 's later ( and arguably most popular ) titles were comparatively tame with virginal heroines and few , if any , suggestive situations . Almost all of Cartland 's later books were historical in theme , which allowed for the believability of chastity ( at least , to many of her audience ) . Despite their softcore story lines , Barbara Cartland 's later novels were highly successful . By 1983 she rated the longest entry in the British Who 's Who , and was named the top - selling author in the world by the Guinness Book of World Records . In the mid - 1990s , by which time she had sold over a billion books , Vogue magazine called her " the true 