Barbara Hambly ( born August 28 , 1951 ) is an award winning and prolific American novelist and screenwriter within the genres of fantasy , science fiction and historical fiction . Her writing includes novels occurring within worlds of her own creation ( generally occurring within an explicit multiverse ) , as well as within previously existing mythos ( notably Star Trek and Star Wars ) . Hambly was born in San Diego , California and grew up in Montclair , California . Her parents , Edward Everett Hambly Sr. and Florence Moraski Hambly , are from a coal - mining town in eastern Pennsylvania . She has an older sister , Mary Ann Saunders , and a younger brother , Edward Everett Hambly Jr . In her early teens , Hambly read and was transfixed by J. R. R. Tolkien 's The Lord of the Rings , and affixed images of dragons to her bedroom door . She early - on became interested in costumery , and has been a long - time participant in Society for Creative Anachronism activities . In the mid - 1960 's , the Hambly family spent a year in Australia . Hambly has a Masters in Medieval History from the University of California at Riverside , completing her degree in 1975 and spending a year in Bordeaux as part of her studies . Her first novel to be published was Time of the Dark in 1982 by Del Rey . Previous to becoming a writer , Hambly chose occupations that allowed her time to write ; all of her novels contain a biography paragraph with a litany of jobs familiar to her readers - high school teacher , model , waitress , technical editor , all - night liquor store clerk , and karate instructor . Hambly served as President of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America from 1994 to 1996 . Her works have been nominated for many awards in the fantasy and horror fiction categories , winning a Locus Award for Best Horror Novel Those Who Hunt the Night ( 1989 ) and the Lord Ruthven award for fiction for its sequel , Travelling With the Dead ( 1996 ) . Hambly was married for some years to fellow science fiction writer George Alec Effinger before his death in 2002 . She now lives in Los Angeles . Hambly has admitted to suffering from seasonal affective disorder , which was undiagnosed for years . Given Hambly 's diverse portfolio , there are only a few themes that run throughout all of her novels . She has a penchant for unusual characters within the fantasy genre , such as the menopausal witch and reluctant scholar - lord in the Winterlands trilogy , or philologist secret service agent in the vampire novels . Her writing is filled with rich descriptions and actors whose actions bear consequences for both their lives and relationships , suffusing her series with a brooding sense of melancholy and regret ; Hambly 's characters experience the pain of frustrated aspirations to a degree that is uncommon in most fantasy novels . Though using many standard clichés and plot devices of the fantasy genre , her works depart from the norm through an exploration of the ethical implications of the consequences of these devices , and what their impact is for the characters , were they real people . In avoiding the " . . .easy consolatory self - identification of genre fantasy " ( p. 449 ) and refusing to let her work be guided more explicitly 