Barbara Ruth Greenberg Delinsky ( born August 9 , 1945 , in Boston , Massachusetts , U.S.A. ) is a best - selling U.S.American writer of more than sixty - five romance and mainstream fiction novels . She has also been published under the pen names Bonnie Drake , Billie Douglass and her real name Barbara Delinsky . Barbara Ruth Greenberg was born on August 9 , 1945 near Boston , Massachusetts . Her mother died when she was only eight . In 1976 , she graduated from Newton High School , in Newton , Massachusetts . She then went on to earn a B.A. in Psychology from Tufts University and an M.A. in Sociology at Boston College . Delinsky married Steve Delinsky , a law student , when she was very young . During the first years of her marriage , she worked for the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children . After the birth of her first child , Andrew , she took a job as a photographer and reporter for the Belmont Herald newspaper . She also filled her time doing volunteer work at hospitals , and serving on the Board of Directors of the Friends of the Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and their Women 's Cancer Advisory Board . In 1980 , after having a pair of twins , Eric and Jeremy , Delinsky read an article about three female writers , and decided to try putting her imagination on paper . After three months of researching , plotting , and writing , she sold her first book . Since then , over 20 million copies of her books are in print , and they have been published in 25 languages . One of her novels , A Woman 's Place , was made into a Lifetime movie starring Lorraine Bracco . In 2001 Delinsky branched out into nonfiction with the book Uplift : Secrets from the Sisterhood of Breast Cancer Survivors . A breast cancer survivor herself , Barbara donates the proceeds of that book and her second nonfiction work to charity . With those funds she has been able to fund an oncology fellowship at the Massachusetts General Hospital that trains breast surgeons . The Delinsky family resides in Newton , Massachusetts . Steve Delinsky has become a reputed lawyer of the city , while Barbara writes daily in her office above the garage at her home . 