Barrett Tillman ( b. 1948 ) is an American author who specializes in naval and aviation topics in addition to fiction and technical writing . Tillman 's most influential book to date is On Yankee Station ( 1987 ) , written with the late John B. Nichols . A critical appraisal of naval aviation in the Vietnam War , it was added to the US Air Force and Marine Corps professional reading lists and became a " reality check " for various Navy and Marine squadrons . Born a fourth - generation Oregonian , Tillman was raised on the family wheat and cattle ranch . His younger brothers include a breeder of exotic animals and a Rhodes Scholar . In high school he was an Eagle Scout , won two state titles as a regimental drummer , and was a champion speaker and debater . Tillman was first published in 1964 at age 15 and graduated from the University of Oregon in 1971 with a bachelor’s degree in journalism . Like his father , a Navy trained pilot in World War II , Tillman developed an early passion for aviation and learned to fly at age 16 . Over the next several years he flew a variety of vintage and historic aircraft , including a pre - WW II Navy trainer and a restored dive - bomber . The latter became the subject of his first book , The Dauntless Dive Bomber of World War II , published in 1976 . It established the format for many subsequent books , operational histories of U.S. Navy aircraft . Tillman lives in Arizona with his wife , Sally . Tillman worked as a freelance writer until 1982 when he founded Champlin Fighter Museum Press in Mesa , Arizona , publishing out - of - print and new titles on military aviation . In 1986 he moved to San Diego to become managing editor of The Hook , quarterly journal of the Tailhook Association . He remained in that position for three years before deciding to focus full time to writing fiction . His first novel was published in June 1990 . Warriors depicted a Mideast air war and became an immediate best seller when Iraq invaded Kuwait two months later . Tillman 's next two novels appeared in 1992 : The Sixth Battle , ( written with his brother ) which captured a wide following among computer war gamers ; and Dauntless , intended as the first in a trilogy . It was followed by Hellcats , nominated as military novel of the year in 1996 . He has also published original fiction in the Stephen Coonts anthologies , Combat and Victory . Tillman remains active as a magazine writer . He is a regular contributor to The Hook , Flight Journal , and several firearms publications . He has also reported from Africa for Soldier of Fortune magazine . Tillman is a registered Independent . Saburō Sakai Samurai ! . Jack Sweetmen , ed . Hill Goodspeed , ed . Tillman has received five writing awards including the second Admiral Radford Award for Naval History and Literature and is an honorary member of three Navy squadrons . He has been honored by the Air Force Historical Foundation , the American Aviation Historical Society , and remains the youngest recipient of the Tailhook Association’s lifetime achievement award . American military historian , novelist and journalist . 