Barry Hannah ( born 1942 ) is an American novelist and short story writer . Hannah was born in Alabama and raised in Clinton , Mississippi . He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Mississippi College in 1964 . He spent the next three years at the University of Arkansas , where he earned a Master of Arts in 1966 and a Master of Fine Arts in 1967 . Hannah 's first novel , the grotesque coming - of - age tale Geronimo Rex ( 1972 ) , won the William Faulkner Prize and was nominated for the National Book Award . Nightwatchmen ( 1973 ) , his second novel , was a flop , and it is his only work never reissued in paperback . Hannah returned to form , however , with the short - story collection Airships ( 1978 ) , which today is considered a classic . The short novel Ray ( 1980 ) was a critical success and a minor breakthrough for Hannah , and it is still considered one of his best novels . After the grotesque Western pastiche Never Die ( 1991 ) , Hannah stuck to the short story form for the rest of the decade , first with the immense Bats Out of Hell ( 1993 ) - - which featured twenty - three stories over close to four hundred pages , making it Hannah 's longest book - - and then with High Lonesome ( 1996 ) , which was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize . After a near - fatal bout with non - Hodgkin lymphoma , Hannah returned in 2001 with Yonder Stands Your Orphan ( the title is taken from Bob Dylan 's song " It 's All Over Now , Baby Blue " ) , his longest novel since Geronimo Rex . In this novel , Hannah returns to a small community north of Vicksburg and to some of the characters featured in stories from Airships and Bats Out of Hell . Hannah is currently working on his next novel . In a 2003 interview with the Austin Chronicle , Hannah declared the novel to be called Last Days . However , a 2005 interview with Hannah in The Paris Review features a manuscript page from Hannah 's forthcoming novel , now titled Long , Last , Happy . No date has been set for the publication of that novel . Hannah has taught creative writing at Clemson University , Middlebury College , the University of Alabama , Texas State University , and the University of Memphis . As of 2006 he resides in Oxford , Mississippi , where he is the director of the MFA program in creative writing for prose fiction at the University of Mississippi . The Award for Literature from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters . 