Barry Hughart ( born March 13 , 1934 ) is an American author of fantasy novels . Hughart was born in Peoria , Illinois , and educated at Phillips Academy and Columbia University . During military service in the Far East he developed a lifelong interest in China that led him to plan a series set in " an Ancient China that never was. " . His first novel , Bridge of Birds ( 1984 ) , introduced Li Kao , an ancient sage and scholar with " a slight flaw in his character , " and his client , later assistant , the immensely strong peasant Number Ten Ox , who narrates the story . The book blended Chinese mythology—authentic and imagined , from several eras—with detective fiction and a gentle , ironic humour . Among the genuine myths alluded to in the book is " The story of Cowherd and Weaver Girl " , from the which the title is derived . Bridge of Birds shared the 1985 World Fantasy Award for Best Novel and won the 1986 Mythopoeic Fantasy Award . It was followed by The Story of the Stone ( 1988 ) and Eight Skilled Gentlemen ( 1990 ) . No further books followed , although Hughart had planned a series of seven novels , in the last of which Li Kao and Number Ten Ox would die facing the Great White Serpent ( a conflict alluded to in Bridge of Birds ) , but would become minor deities , continuing to cause problems for the August Personage of Jade . An omnibus edition , The Chronicles of Master Li and Number Ten Ox ( ISBN 0 - 9665436 - 0 - 2 ) , was published in 1998 . It was illustrated by Kaja Foglio . Hughart has blamed the end of his writing career on unsympathetic and incompetent publishers . The style of his books made him difficult to classify and he felt his market was restricted by the decision to sell only to SF / fantasy outlets . His publishers did not notify him of the awards given Bridge of Birds , and published The Story of the Stone three months ahead of schedule , so that no copies were available when the scheduled reviews appeared ; whilst the paperback of Eight Skilled Gentlemen was published simultaneously with the hardback . When his publishers then refused to publish hardback editions of any future books , Hughart found it impossible to afford to continue writing , which brought the series to an end . He lives in Tucson , Arizona . 