Beatrix Potter was born in Kensington , London on July 28 , 1866 . Educated at home by a succession of governesses , she had little opportunity to mix with other children . Even Potter 's younger brother , Bertram , was rarely at home ; he was sent to boarding school , leaving Beatrix alone with her pet animals . She had frogs and newts , and even a pet bat . Among her pets were two rabbits . Her first rabbit was Benjamin , whom she described as " an impudent , cheeky little thing " , while her second was Peter , whom she took everywhere with her , even on trains , on a little lead . Potter would watch these animals for hours on end , sketching them . Gradually the sketches became better and better , developing her talents from an early age . Potter 's father , Rupert William Potter ( 1832–1914 ) , although trained as a barrister , spent his days at gentlemen 's clubs and rarely practised . Her mother , Helen Potter née Leech ( 1839–1932 ) , the daughter of a cotton merchant , spent her time visiting or receiving visitors . The family was supported by both parents ' inherited incomes . Every summer , Rupert Potter would rent a country house ; firstly Dalguise House in Perthshire , Scotland for the eleven summers of 1871 to 1881 , then later one in the English Lake District . In 1882 the family met the local vicar , Canon Hardwicke Rawnsley , who was deeply worried about the effects of industry and tourism on the Lake District . He would later found the National Trust in 1895 , to help protect the countryside . Beatrix Potter had immediately fallen in love with the rugged mountains and dark lakes , and through Rawnsley , learnt of the importance of trying to conserve the region , something that was to stay with her for the rest of her life . When Potter came of age , her parents appointed her their housekeeper and discouraged any intellectual development , instead requiring her to supervise the household . From the age of 15 until she was past 30 , she recorded her everyday life in journals , using her own secret code ( which was not decrypted until decades after her death ) . An uncle attempted to introduce her as a student at the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew , but she was rejected because she was female . Potter was later one of the first to suggest that lichens were a symbiotic relationship between fungi and algae . As , at the time , the only way to record microscopic images was by painting them , Potter made numerous drawings of lichens and fungi . As the result of her observations , she was widely respected throughout England as an expert mycologist . She also studied spore germination and life cycles of fungi . Potter 's set of detailed watercolors of fungi , numbering some 270 completed by 1901 , is in the Armitt Library , Ambleside . In 1897 , her paper on the germination of spores was presented to the Linnean Society by her uncle Sir Henry Enfield Roscoe , as women were barred from attending meetings . The Royal Society also refused to publish at least one of her technical papers . Potter 's illustration of her anthropomorphic rabbits — in this case the married cousins , Benjamin and Flopsy Bunny ( with Peter Rabbit in the 