Ben Peek ( October 12 , 1976 , Sydney , New South Wales ) is an Australian author . His middle name is Michael . Peek 's short stories have been published in a variety of genre magazines , including Fantasy Magazine and Aurealis . His fiction has been reprinted in various Year 's Best volumes . In 2000 , he created a zine called The Urban Sprawl Project , a black and white pamphlet of photography and prose , and this remains the name of his online journal . In 2006 his autobiography , Twenty - Six Lies / One Truth , was published by Wheatland Press . In 2007 , Black Sheep , a dystopian novel , will be published by Prime Books . Peek holds a Bachelor of Arts ( Hons ) from the University of Western Sydney , and a PhD in Creative Writing from the University of New South Wales , during which he wrote the novel A Year in the City . His reviews have appeared on several websites including , PopImage , Sequential Tart , and Strange Horizons . In 2005 he interviewed over forty Australian speculative fiction writers , editors and publishers as part of the The 2005 Snapshot : Australian Speculative Fiction . Peek 's writing is best described as speculative fiction . However , he often takes fundamental elements of the genre and combines them into other styles . Recurring themes in Peek 's work include the representation of race and multiculturalism . Peek has also written a number works that play with story form , including Twenty - Six Lies / One Truth and Johnny Cash . Black Sheep , a dystopian novel ( 2007 ) . Prime Books forthcoming . Twenty - Six Lies / One Truth ( 2006 ) , Wheatland Press . The Enigma Variant ( 1999 ) , with Chris Mowbray . In Polyphony Six , ed. Deborah Layne and Jay Lake , Wheatland Press . The Souls of Dead Soldiers are for Blackbirds , Not Little Boys ( 2006 ) . In Agog ! Ripping Reads , ed. Cat Sparks , Agog ! Press . Under the Red Sun ( 2006 ) . Fantasy Magazine , # 4 . In Phantom , ed. Nick Mamatas , Prime Books . The Night of the Dead King ( 2006 ) , Potato Monkey , # 4 . John Wayne ( As Written by a Non - American ) ( 2006 ) , Aurealis , # 37 , Chimaera Press . An Investigation into the Chinese Made Roman Toga ( 2005 ) , Full Unit Hookup , # 7 . The Elephant’s Glass Prison ( 2005 ) . In Magistria , ed. G.W. Thomas , RageMachineBooks . Johnny Cash ( A Tale in Questionnaire Results ) ( 2005 ) , Shadowed Realms # 4 . Reprinted in The Year’s Best Australian Science Fiction and Fantasy , 2006 , eds . Bill Congreve and Michelle Marquardt , MirrorDanse Books . The Dream of a Russian Princess ( 2005 ) , TiconderogaOnline # 3 . The Dreaming City ( 2004 ) . In Leviathan Four : Cities , ed. Forrest Aguirre , The Ministry of Whimsy Press . Reprinted in The Year’s Best Australian Science Fiction and Fantasy , 2005 , eds . Bill Congreve and Michelle Marquardt , MirrorDanse Books . Reprinted in The Best of Leviathan , eds . Jeff VanderMeer and Ann Kennedy . In Agog ! Smashing Stories , ed. Cat Sparks , Agog ! Press . The Lost World of the Stranger ( 2004 