Ben Hammersley ( born April 3 , 1976 ) , in Leicester , England ) is a British journalist , broadcaster , and photographer , currently based in Florence , Italy . Currently a reporter for the BBC , he previously worked as the first Internet reporter for The Times , where he was shortlisted for one of the British Press Awards , and as a reporter for The Guardian . During his early career , he specialised in technology journalism , but unlike many technology writers , Hammersley often reported from dangerous countries . He worked in Iran and Afghanistan . After travelling undercover to interview the Burmese opposition leader and Nobel Peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi , Hammersley moved toward war correspondence and foreign reporting . In 2006 , Hammersley was embedded with both British and American troops in Afghanistan , shooting video for The Guardian as as multimedia reporter for Guardian Unlimited . In 2007 he travelled to Beirut to photograph Hezbollah . In June 2007 , Hammersley was the reporter in an experiment in multimedia journalism for the BBC . Reporting from Turkey in the run - up to the general elections there , he reported for BBC World and the BBC World Service , while also placing behind the scenes video on his page on YouTube , pictures on Flickr , his research notes on Del.icio.us , and a running commentary of his reporting work on Twitter . Hammersley is also the author of technical books and programmers ' guides , notably with O'Reilly Media . He has been influential in the RSS community , writing the first book on the subject . Other books have covered Blogging and the inner workings of Gmail . Between 2004 and 2006 , he built and maintained the weblogs of The Guardian , including Comment is free . He is attributed with the first warchalking in the wild , on a street corner in Kensington , London in June 2002 . Hammersley also regularly contributes to congresses and conferences , such as the O'Reilly Emerging Technology Conference , the O'Reilly Open Source Convention and the Global Investigative Journalism Conference . He is a member of the advisory council of the Open Rights Group . He is renowned for speaking whilst wearing a utilikilt . He coined the term podcasting , in an article for The Guardian . It was later the New Oxford American Dictionary word of the year for 2005 . Hammersley also built , and currently runs , the website for the Serpentine Gallery in London . Hammersley is an avid ultramarathon runner . Having completed the Marathon des sables , and the 100km del Passatore he is now coached by Jason Koop of Chris Carmichael 's Carmichael Training Systems . Ben Hammersley is the eldest of three children to Sally and Nigel Hammersley , and was educated at Loughborough Grammar School , and the School of Oriental and African Studies , which he dropped out of after a year to be a producer at Associated Press Television News . On 24 November 2001 he married Anna Söderblom , at Blake 's Hotel , London . Hammersley , Ben ( 2003 ) Content Syndication with RSS , O'Reilly Media ( ISBN 0 - 596 - 00383 - 8 ) . Hammersley , Ben ( 2005 ) Developing Feeds with RSS and Atom , O'Reilly Media ( ISBN 0 - 596 - 00881 - 3 ) . Hammersley , Ben ( 2005 ) Hacking Gmail , John Wiley & Sons . 