For other persons of the same name , see Ben Johnson ( disambiguation ) . Benjamin Jonson ( c. 11 June 1572 – 6 August 1637 ) was an English Renaissance dramatist , poet and actor . A contemporary of William Shakespeare , he is best known for his satirical plays , particularly Volpone and The Alchemist which are considered his best , and his lyric poems . A man of vast reading and a seemingly insatiable appetite for controversy , Jonson had an unparalleled breadth of influence on Jacobean and Caroline playwrights and poets . Although he was born in Westminster , London , Jonson claimed his family was of Scottish Border country descent , and this claim may have been supported by the fact that his coat of arms bears three spindles or rhombi , a device shared by a Borders family , the Johnstones of Annandale . His father died a month before Ben 's birth , and his mother remarried two years later , to a master bricklayer . Jonson attended school in St. Martin 's Lane , and was later sent to Westminster School , where one of his teachers was William Camden. Jonson remained friendly with Camden , whose broad scholarship evidently influenced his own style , until the latter 's death in 1623 . On leaving , Jonson was once thought to have gone on to the University of Cambridge ; Jonson himself said that he did not go to university , but was put to a trade immediately : a legend recorded by Fuller indicates that he worked on a garden wall in Lincoln 's Inn . He soon had enough of the trade , probably bricklaying , and spent some time in the Low Countries as a volunteer with the regiments of Francis Vere . Jonson reports that while in the Netherlands , he killed an opponent in single combat and stripped him of his weapons . Jonson married some time before 1594 , to a woman he described to Drummond as " a shrew , yet honest. " . His wife has not been definitively identified , but she is sometimes identified as the Ann Lewis who married a Benjamin Jonson at St Magnus - the - Martyr , near London Bridge . The registers of St. Martin 's Church state that his eldest daughter Mary died in November , 1593 , when she was only six months old . His eldest son Benjamin died of the plague ten years later ( Jonson 's epitaph to him On My First Sonne was written shortly after ) , and a second Benjamin died in 1635 . For five years somewhere in this period , Jonson lived separate from his wife , enjoying instead the hospitality of Lord Aubigny . By the summer of 1597 , Jonson had a fixed engagement in the Admiral 's Men , then performing under Philip Henslowe 's management at The Rose . John Aubrey reports , on uncertain authority , that Jonson was not successful as an actor ; whatever his skills as an actor , he was evidently more valuable to the company as a writer . By this time , Jonson had begun to write original plays for the Lord Admiral 's Men ; in 1598 , he was mentioned by Francis Meres in his Palladis Tamia as one of " the best for tragedy. " . None of his early tragedies survive , however . An undated comedy , The Case is Altered , may be his earliest surviving play . In 1597 