Benjamin Seebohm Rowntree was born in York on the 7th July 1871 the third child of Quaker chocolate manufacturer Joseph Rowntree and Emma Seebohm . He was educated at the York Quaker Boarding School and Owens College , Manchester , where he studied for five terms focusing on chemistry . When he returned to York he started working in his father 's chocolate factory where he used his knowledge of chemistry to carry out research and laboratory testing for the firm . On Sundays he started teaching at the York Adult School which he continued doing for twenty years . His interaction with members of the the working class at the Adult school combined with a visit to Newcastle in 1895 , in which he was shown the living conditions of the poor first hand , made him determined to look into the problem of poverty . In 1897 he married Lydia Potter of Middlesbrough and together they were to have five children . In the same year he was appointed as a director of his father 's successful business which allowed him time to embark on his first investigation of poverty in York . During the First World War he was the director of the welfare department of the Ministry of Munitions and in 1917 became a member of the reconstruction committee which later became the Ministry of Reconstruction . He became chairman of Rowntrees in 1923 a post he held until 1941 . Poverty in towns , slum dwellers in Dublin , Ireland circa 1901 . Rowntree investigated poverty in York , inspired by the work of his father Joseph Rowntree and the work of Charles Booth in London . He carried out a comprehensive survey into the living conditions of the poor in York during which investigators visited every working class home . This amounted to the detailed study of 11,560 families or 46,754 individuals . The results of this study were published in 1901 in his book Poverty , A Study of Town Life . In Rowntree 's work , he surveyed poor families in York and drew a poverty line in terms of a minimum weekly sum of money " necessary to enable families . . . to secure the necessaries of a healthy life " ( quoted in Coates and Silburn , 1970 ) . The money needed for this subsistence level of existence covered fuel and light , rent , food , clothing , and household and personal items , adjusted according to family size . He determined this level using scientific methods which hadn’t been applied to the study of poverty before . For example he consulted leading nutritionists of the period to discover the minimum calorific intake and nutritional balance necessary before people got ill or lost weight . He then surveyed the prices of food in York to discover what the cheapest prices in the area for the food needed for this minimum diet were and used this information to set his poverty line . According to this measure , 27.84 percent of the total population of York lived below the poverty line . This result corresponded with that from Charles Booth’s study of poverty in London and so challenged the view , commonly held at the time , that abject poverty was a problem particular to London and was not widespread in the rest of Britain . He placed those below his poverty line into two groups depending on the reason for their poverty . Those in primary poverty did not have enough income to meet the expenditure necessary 