Benjamin Walker ( November 25 , 1913 ) is the truncated pen name of George Benjamin Walker , who also writes under the pseudonym Jivan Bhakar . He is a British citizen , and an Indian - born author on religion and philosophy , and an authority on esoterica in all its curious forms . He was born George Benjamin Walker , in Calcutta ( Kolkata ) , the son of Dr Simeon Benjamin Walker , M.D. , and Mary Emily Fordyce , both of Pune , ( Poona ) , India . His father was descended from a long line of Polish Jews who fled to India as refugees during the Russian pogrom in Moldavia in the 1790s . In India they became part of the Bene Israeli community as rabbis and community leaders . Dr Simeon Walker ( 1873 - 1928 ) carried out a great deal of humanitarian work , in India , establishing a centre of studies called The Hall of Literature , Science and Hygiene that was formally opened by the Gaekwar ( Maharaja ) of Beroda ( Vadodara ) in 1900 . The building was accidentally burned to the ground in 1902 , along with thousands of books , manuscripts and official documents in Sanscrit , Marathi , Gujarati , Hebrew , and English , many of which had been contributed by scholars and old families who desired to contribute to this enterprise . Simeon Walker was also active in educational work , in the course of which he came to know several of the political leaders of the day that were forerunners of Mahatma Gandhi . They included G.K. Gokhale and B.G. Tilak . Simeon Walker was a staunch pacifist and would have nothing to do with those who advocated strong - arm tactics to achieve their ends . Emily Walker , née Fordyce , ( 1888 - 1975 ) was very keen to obtain a medical degree in England so that she might provide medical treatment for Indian women , since at the time they were very reluctant to be seen by male physicians . Accordingly Simeon Walker accompanied his wife to England where where she obtained an MB ( Bachelor in Medicine ) and several diplomas in female ailments and midwifery . During her stay in London she joined the Suffragette movement and met Emmeline Pankhurst . They married in 1906 , and when Dr Simeon and Emily Walker returned to India in 1910 they decided to settle in Calcutta , at that time the capital of India . They opened a dispensary where for one day a week the poor were treated and given medication free . In total they had four children : Reema Rose ( 1906 - 1912 ) , Alexander ( 1909 - 1991 ) , William ( 1911 ) , and George Benjamin ( 1913 ) . George Benjamin Walker , the third son of the Walkers , was born in Calcutta on November 25 , 1913 . He matriculated from the Calcutta Boys ' School with distinctions in English and Urdu in 1929 . At school , as a keen young Scout , he was Patrol Leader in the 9th First Calcutta Troop . This later stood him in good stead when in 1971 he completed theorectical and practical work in an Advanced Youth Leadership course in Richmond . From school he went to the famous Jesuit institution , St. Xavier 's College , Calcutta , where he received his BA degree with distinctions in English and Philosophy in 1933 . He was admitted to 