Benjamin Yeoh ( 1978 - ) aka Ben Yeoh is one of the first British Chinese playwrights to have his plays performed and recognised in the UK . Born near London , England his father came from Ipoh , Malaysia and mother from Singapore . Yeoh won a scholarship to Westminster School and went on to study Natural Sciences at Emmanuel College , Cambridge University , interestingly the same college as his father and grand father . He then went on to Harvard University as a Herchel Smith scholar studying dramaturgy and play writing . Yeoh is also among the first generation of writers to have come from the Soho Theatre Young Writers’ Programme . He has also been on the Royal Court Theatre’s writers’ programme led in 2005 by playwright Jane Bodie . His first play , Lemon Love , was performed by Louie Bayliss and Salima Saxton at the Finborough Theatre , London ( 2001 ) . Lemon Love is a revenge love story that involved a mystical older couple guiding and berating a younger couple in their stormy relationship . Directed by Elizabeth Freestone . Lost in Peru , was his second full length piece , first performed at the Camden People’s Theatre , London ( 2003 ) . It was Arts Council of England funded . The play dealt with torture and interwove personal tragedies with those on a larger scale particularly ' the disappeared ' in Latin America . The UK newspaper , the Guardian suggested that it ‘pushed the boundaries of form and style’ but also noted that it was a difficult play . A reading of his third play called Yellow Men , at the time ( 2004 ) , was performed at the Soho Theatre and was produced by Yellow Earth Theatre . It also received Arts Council funding . Yellow Men was renamed Yellow Gentlemen and performed at the Oval House Theatre in February - March , 2006 . Time Out applauded " . . .the vertiginous sense of possibility and regret present in Yeoh’s intelligent script. " . Patent Breaking Life Saving , directed by Jessica Dromgoole was broadcast by BBC World Service in December 2006 . It starred Danny Sapani and Tanya Moodie . The play was bout an African President who hits his head and starts giving out medicines for free . The Places in Between , a dramatisation of the book by Rory Stewart , starring Greg Wise was broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in February 2007 . The story is about Rory Stewart , who walks across Afghanistan just after the fall of the Taliban . Nakamitsu won the international Gate Theatre Translation Award and was performed 24 May - 16 June , 2007 . It is a version of a Japanese Noh play . The UK newspaper , the Guardian said of Nakamitsu : ‘Small but exquisitely formed , Benjamin Yeoh 's new version of a 14th - century Japanese Noh play is fusion theatre , borrowing from east as well as west . Yeoh has also had work on BBC Radio 3 ( The Inventor of Fireworks performed by David Yip on 22 January 2004 ) and several readings of other works . Lists of miscellaneous information should be avoided . Please relocate any relevant information into appropriate sections or articles . Ben has directed several plays and has been involved with writing groups and mentorships such as Royal Court Writers , Soho Young Writers , BBC Radio , Moti Roti , Talawa and Yellow Ink . He currently sits on the board of 