Bert Stiles ( August 30 , 1920 - November 26 , 1944 ) was an American author of short stories who was killed in action during World War II . Born in Denver , Colorado he was the son of an electrician , Bert Stiles , Senior , and a music teacher , Elizabeth Huddleston Stiles . He attended Denver 's South High School and worked summers as a junior forest ranger in Estes Park , both of which became sources of material for his short stories . After graduation from high school in 1938 he entered Colorado College , with a pronounced interest in writing both stories and poetry . He became a feature writer for the campus newspaper , The Tiger , expressing pacifist views in vogue at the time , and in June 1941 , isolated himself in his fraternity house and produced twenty - seven short stories . Stiles mailed samples of his prose to Ruth and Max Aley , literary agents in New York City , who expressed an interest in seeing more . Stiles left college to hitchhike to New York , was stopped twice by police and sent home twice , but eventually reached New York and delivered his stories in person . The Aleys employed him as a handyman and provided him living space on their farm in Connecticut in order to mentor him in his writing . Stiles wrote ten hours a day throughout the summer of 1941 and his diligence was rewarded when his first story was accepted in September by the Saturday Evening Post , which eventually published the " The Ranger " series of stories based on his experiences in Estes Park . He also sold stories to Liberty and The American magazines . Stiles enlisted in the U. S. Army in January 1943 , became an aviation cadet , and was commissioned a second lieutenant , Air Corps , in November . He won pilot wings and was assigned to a B - 17 Flying Fortress replacement crew sent to the Eighth Air Force in March , 1944 . Assigned to the 401st Bomb Squadron , 91st Bomb Group at Bassingbourn , England , he began flying missions with the crew of 2d Lt. Sam Newton on April 19 , 1944 , with their first to Kassel , Germany . Thereafter the crew flew an average of two to three missions per week , usually on consecutive days . This pattern continued through May as the 91st attacked both strategic targets in Germany , V - 1 launch sites , and targets in France in preparation for Operation Overlord . Their first mission against Berlin occurred May 7 . Newton 's crew was assigned to and primarily flew B - 17G - 50 - BO , s / n 42 - 102504 , nicknamed Times A - Wastin ' and carrying the fuselage codes LL - D. The crew made one mission in another noted 91st B - 17 , Shoo Shoo Baby , on May 25 , 1944 , to bomb Essey - les - Nancy airfield in France , but turned back to base early because the plane 's oxygen system malfunctioned . Stiles continued to write , both highly personalized pieces for the London Daily Mail , articles for Yank and Air Force Magazine , and the manuscript for a book . He eventually flew twenty missions with Sam Newton 's crew , and his manuscript was a journal - style memoir of his experiences with them . In mid - June , 1944 