Bette Bao Lord ( November 3 , 1938 ) is a writer and civic activist . She was born in Shanghai and came to the United States at the age of eight when her father , a British - trained engineer , was sent here in 1946 by the Chinese government to purchase equipment . In 1947 Ms. Bao Lord and her family were stranded in the United States when Mao Zedong and his communist rebels won the civil war in China . Ms. Bao Lord has written eloquently about her painful childhood experiences as a Chinese immigrant in the post - World War II United States in her autobiographical children 's book In the Year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson . In this book she describes her struggle to learn English and to become accepted by her classmates . Today , Ms. Bao Lord is a distinguished novelist and writer , and serves as chair of the Board of Trustees of Freedom House . Established by Wendell Wilkie and Eleanor Roosevelt in 1941 , Freedom House is a nonpartisan , nonprofit organization dedicated to promoting democracy around the world . President Clinton has hailed Ms. Bao Lord as " someone who writes so powerfully about the past and is working so effectively to shape the future. " . Her First novel , Spring Moon ( 1981 ) , set in pre - revolutionary China , was an international bestseller and American Book Award nominee for best first novel . The Middle Heart ( 1996 ) , Ms. Bao Lord 's most recent novel , spans 70 years of modern Chinese history , ending in 1989 with the student - led demonstrations at Tiananmen Square . Ms. Bao Lord received an MA from Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and graduated with her BA from Tufts University . She married Winston Lord , later an Ambassador to China , in 1962 and they have a grown son and daughter . Eighth moon ; the true story of a young girl’s life in Communist China , by Sansan as told to Bette Lord , New York , Harper & Row , 1964 . Spring Moon : a novel of China , Boston , Massachusetts : G.K. Hall , 1982 . In the Year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson , New York : Harper & Row , 1984 . Legacies : a Chinese Mosaic , New York : Alfred A. Knopf , distributed by Random House , 1990 . The Middle Heart , New York : Alfred A. Knopf , distributed by Random House , 1996 . 