William McGuire " Bill " Bryson , OBE , ( born December 8,1951 ) is a best - selling American - born author of humorous books on travel , as well as books on the English language and on scientific subjects . He has lived for most of his adult life in England . Bill Bryson was born in Des Moines , Iowa , the son of William and Mary Bryson . He has an older brother , Michael , and a sister , Elisabeth . Bryson was educated at Drake University but dropped out in 1972 after deciding to backpack around Europe for four months . He returned to Europe the following year with his high - school friend , Stephen Katz ( real name Matt Angerer ) . Some of his experiences from this trip are re - lived as flashbacks in Neither Here Nor There : Travels in Europe , which documents a similar journey Bryson made twenty years later . Bryson first visited England in 1973 during a tour of Europe , and decided to stay after landing a job working in a psychiatric hospital in Virginia Water , Surrey . It was there that he met a nurse by the name of Cynthia , a native of England who would eventually become his wife . The couple returned to the USA so Bryson could complete his college degree , after which , in 1977 , they settled in England , where they remained until 1995 . Living in North Yorkshire and mainly working as a journalist , Bryson eventually became chief copy editor of the business section of The Times , and then deputy national news editor of the business section of The Independent . He left journalism in 1987 , three years after the birth of his third child . Still living in Yorkshire , Bryson started writing independently and in 1990 their fourth and final child , Sam , was born . In 1995 , Bryson returned to the United States to live in Hanover , New Hampshire for some years , the stories of which feature in his book I'm A Stranger Here Myself , alternatively titled Notes from a Big Country in the United Kingdom and Canada . In 2003 , however , the Brysons and their four children returned to England , and now live near Wymondham , Norfolk . Also in 2003 , in conjunction with World Book Day , voters in England chose Bryson 's book Notes from a Small Island as that which best sums up English identity and the state of the nation . In the same year , he was appointed a Commissioner for English Heritage . In 2004 , Bryson won the prestigious Aventis Prize for best general - science book with A Short History of Nearly Everything . This concise and popular piece of literature explores not only the histories and current statuses of the sciences , but also reveals their humble and often humorous beginnings . One " top scientist " is alleged to have jokingly described the book as " annoyingly free of mistakes. " . Bryson has also written two popular works on the history of the English language — Mother Tongue and Made in America — and , more recently , an update of his guide to usage , Bryson 's Dictionary of Troublesome Words ( published in its first edition as The Penguin Dictionary of Troublesome Words in 1983 ) . These books were popularly acclaimed and well - reviewed , though they received criticism from academics in 