William H. DeSmedt is an American author of science fiction . His first novel , Singularity ( 2004 ) , explores the 1908 Tunguska event and the speculative hypothesis that it was caused by a submicroscopic , primordial black hole . Although the novel is frequently generalized as a work of science fiction , its premise is heavily supported by factual science fleshed out with fictional characters . The novel qualifies in the action / thriller genre as the pace of the plot development resonates with the works of Tom Clancy or Michael Crichton . DeSmedt has a depth of knowledge in both Russian language and Russian Studies which are both highly employed in his debut novel , Singularity ( 2004 ) . He completed eighteen months of Russian language instruction at the Army Language School ( which later evolved into the Defense Language Institute ( DLI ) ) in Monterey , California . He also earned both a Bachelor of Arts ( B.A. ) , a Master of Arts ( M.A. ) in Soviet Area Studies , and a Master of Science ( M.S. ) in Computer Science . The culmination of his Soviet - oriented education was a ten month tour in a US – USSR student exchange program . Since then , DeSmedt has served in the capacity of programmer and system designer , consulting for both startups and Fortune 500 companies . He also developed a specialty in Artificial Intelligence research and language . More recently , he is highly regarded as a knowledge engineer . DeSmedt is married with both children and grandchildren . DeSmedt has cited two authors , Larry Niven and Roger Zelazny , as having a strong influence on his writing style . To me , they stake out the opposing poles of the science fiction I grew up with : Larry , with the extremely hard science fiction focus and an extraordinary economy of prose - it never ceases to amaze me how tersely he can craft a sentence and still have it really sing . And Roger , just the opposite - discursive , with elements of the fantastic , yet he can instantly bring you down to earth with just a turn of phrase that grounds the whole thing . Speaking of authors he enjoys , DeSmedt mentions Jorge Luis Borges and Vernor Vinge as favorites . For example , if you go back and read his 1992 novel A Fire upon the Deep , you’ll get a sense projected onto a universal scale of what the Internet culture and economy was going to become , five or seven years before it happened . In his debut novel , Singularity ( 2004 ) , DeSmedt marshals his fascination with non - fiction science in order to bring validity to the long defunct hypothesis that the devastation of the Tunguska basin in 1908 was the result of a submicroscopic , primordial black hole . He uses real principles in quantum physics and cosmology to elucidate that the Jackson – Ryan hypothesis may actually be correct . In November 2004 , Bill DeSmedt spoke at a meeting of the Johnson Space Center Astronomical Society in Houston , TX , along with Drs . Albert A. Jackson IV and Michael P. Ryan Jr. who first put forward the Tunguska - black hole hypothesis in 1973 . The lecture centered around the " Jackson – Ryan hypothesis " on which Singularity is based . At this lecture , DeSmedt had the unique opportunity to defend the Jackson - Ryan hypothesis against the co 