Boris Leonidovich Pasternak ( Russian : Борис Леонидович Пастернак ) ( February 10 1890 – May 30 , 1960 ) was a Nobel Prize - winning Russian poet and writer , in the West best known for his epic novel Doctor Zhivago . The novel is a tragedy , whose events span through the last period of Czarist Russia and early days of Soviet Union , and was first translated and published in Italy in 1957 . In fact , Boris Pasternak , however , is most celebrated in Russia as a poet . My Sister Life , written in 1917 , is arguably the most influential collection of poetry published in Russian language in the 20th century . Pasternak was born in Moscow on February 10 , ( Gregorian ) , 1890 ( Julian January 29 ) . His father was a prominent Jewish painter Leonid Pasternak , professor at the Moscow School of Painting , Sculpture and Architecture and his mother was Rosa ( Raitza ) Kaufman , a concert pianist . Pasternak was brought up in a highly cosmopolitan atmosphere , and his home was visited by Sergei Rachmaninoff , Rainer Maria Rilke , and Leo Tolstoy . Pasternak resolved to become a composer and entered the Moscow Conservatory being inspired by his neighbour Alexander Scriabin . In 1910 he abruptly left the conservatory for the University of Marburg , where he studied under Hermann Cohen and Nicolai Hartmann , who were Neo - Kantian philosophers . Although invited to become a scholar , he decided against philosophy being a profession and returned to Moscow in 1914 . His first poetry collection , influenced by Alexander Blok and the Russian Futurists , was published later the same year . Pasternak 's early verse cleverly dissimulates his preoccupation with Kant 's ideas . Its fabric includes striking alliterations , wild rhythmic combinations , day - to - day vocabulary , and hidden allusions to his favourite poets like Rilke , Lermontov and German Romantic poets . During World War I he taught and worked at a chemical factory in the Urals , which undoubtedly provided him with material for Dr. Zhivago many years later . Unlike his relatives and many of his friends , Pasternak did n't leave Russia after the revolution . Instead , he was fascinated with the new ideas and possibilities that revolution brought to life . Pasternak spent the summer of 1917 living in the steppe country near Saratov , where he fell in love with a Jewish girl . This passion resulted in the collection My Sister Life , which he wrote for three months and was embarrassed to publish for four years because of its novel style . When it finally appeared in 1921 , the book had a revolutionary impact upon Russian poetry . It made Pasternak the model of imitation for younger poets , and decisively changed the poetic manners of Osip Mandelshtam and Marina Tsvetayeva , to name only a few . Following My Sister Life , Pasternak produced some hermetic pieces of uneven quality , including his masterpiece : the lyric cycle entitled Rupture ( 1921 ) . Various authors such as Vladimir Mayakovsky , Andrey Bely , and Vladimir Nabokov applauded Pasternak 's poems as works with pure , unbridled inspiration . In the late 1920s , he also participated in the much celebrated tripartite correspondence with Rilke and Tsvetayeva . By the end of the 1920s , Pasternak increasingly felt that his colourful modernist style was at odds with the doctrine of Socialist Realism approved by 