Abraham " Bram " Stoker ( November 8 , 1847 – April 20 , 1912 ) was an Irish writer , best remembered as the author of the influential horror novel Dracula . In his honor , the Horror Writers Association recognizes " superior achievement " in horror writing with the Bram Stoker Award . He was born on November 8 , 1847 at 15 Marino Crescent — then as now called " The Crescent " - in Fairview , a coastal suburb of Dublin , Ireland . His parents were Abraham Stoker ( born in 1799 ; married Stoker 's mother in 1844 ; died on October 10 , 1876 ) and the feminist Charlotte Mathilda Blake Thornely ( born in 1818 ; died in 1901 ) . Stoker was the third of seven children . Abraham and Charlotte were members of the Clontarf Church of Ireland parish and attended the parish church ( St . John the Baptist located on Seafield Road West ) with their children , who were both baptised there . Until he started school at the age of seven — when he made a complete , astounding recovery — Stoker was an invalid . Of this time , Stoker wrote , " I was naturally thoughtful , and the leisure of long illness gave opportunity for many thoughts which were fruitful according to their kind in later years. " . After his recovery , he became a normal young man , even excelling as an athlete ( he was named University Athlete ) at Trinity College , Dublin ( 1864–70 ) , from which he graduated with honors in mathematics . He was auditor of the College Historical Society and president of the University Philosophical Society , where his first paper was on " Sensationalism in Fiction and Society " . In 1876 , while employed as a civil servant in Dublin , Stoker wrote a non - fiction book ( The Duties of Clerks of Petty Sessions in Ireland , published 1879 ) and theater reviews for The Dublin Mail , a newspaper partly owned by fellow horror writer J. Sheridan Le Fanu . His interest in theatre led to a lifelong friendship with the English actor Henry Irving . He also wrote stories , and in 1872 " The Crystal Cup " was published by the London Society , followed by " The Chain of Destiny " in four parts in The Shamrock . In 1878 Stoker married Florence Balcombe , a celebrated beauty whose former suitor was Oscar Wilde . The couple moved to London , where Stoker became business manager ( at first as actor - manager ) of Irving 's Lyceum Theatre , a post he held for 27 years . The collaboration with Irving was very important for Stoker and through him he became involved in London 's high society , where he met , among other notables , James McNeil Whistler , the Cathartist poet Frances Featherstone and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle . In the course of Irving 's tours , Stoker got the chance to travel around the world . The Stokers had one son , Irving Noel , who was born 31 December 1879 . Bram Stoker died on April 20th , 1912 , and was cremated and his ashes placed in a display urn at Golders Green Crematorium . After Irving Noel Stoker 's death in 1961 , his ashes were added to that urn . The original plan had been to keep his parents ' ashes together , but after Florence Stoker 's 