Brandon Sanderson ( December 1975 ) is an American fantasy author . A Nebraska native , he currently resides in Provo , Utah . He earned his Master 's degree in Creative Writing in 2005 from Brigham Young University and is currently a part - time faculty member in the English department . He married on July 7 , 2006 and is a member of the LDS church . Sanderson 's writing is noteworthy for its epic fantasy tone , unique settings , precision magic systems , and variety of characters . Cover of Elantris , Sanderson 's first novel . Released in April 2005 , Sanderson 's standalone first novel , Elantris , is the story of the fallen city of the gods , the mystery that caused its downfall , and the actions of Prince Raoden , Princess Sarene , and Gyorn Hrathen . Struck down by the same plague that turned the gods into walking corpses , Prince Raoden of Arelon is imprisoned in the fallen city while his former subjects are told that he is dead . He strives to overcome the constant pain of his condition and build a meaningful life for himself and the fellow inhabitants of Elantris . The first of a trilogy , Mistborn : The Final Empire follows a sixteen year old streetwise thief named Vin . Living in Luthadel , the capital city of the Final Empire , she ekes out a living by working with one of the many thieving crews that abound in the city . Kelsier is a well - to - do crew boss who is always thinking up extreme ways to make money off the noble class . After fate pulls them together , Kelsier must teach Vin how to harness the latent Mistborn abilities within her so that she can help him overthrow the Lord Ruler , who has ruled the Final Empire for over a thousand years . Mistborn : The Final Empire was released in July 2006 . The initial news of Sanderson 's deal with Tor Books mentioned another book entitled Way of Kings , though no release date for this book has been announced . The final two volumes in the Mistborn trilogy , Mistborn : The Well of Ascension and Mistborn : The Hero of Ages , are currently scheduled for release on 2007 - 08 - 21 ( according to Amazon.com ) and in early 2008 ( respectively ) , though Amazon.com currently has the release date for The Well of Ascension set as 2007 - 08 - 21 . Sanderson is also currently releasing a Creative Commons - licensed novel titled Warbreaker one chapter at a time Older drafts of the various chapters are also available . A book titled Alcatraz Versus the Evil Librarians is scheduled for an October 2007 release from Scholastic Press . Sanderson is also working on Dark One , though no release date has been set . 