Brenda Jackson ( b abt 1953 ) is an American novelist who writes contemporary multicultural romance novels . She was the first African - American author to have a novel published as part of the Silhouette Desire line , and has seen many of her novels reach the USAToday Bestseller list . Brenda Jackson was born and raised in Jacksonville , Florida . When she was in eighth grade , she began entertaining her friends with short love stories . At about the same time , she met her childhood sweetheart , Gerald , whom she married in 1972 , soon after high school graduation . She went on to earn a degree in business administration from Jacksonville University , and to expand their family by having two sons , Gerald Jr. and Brandon . To relieve job - related stress in the early 1990s , Jackson began reading romance novels . Although she enjoyed the novels , she was dissatisfied with the lack of cultural and ethnic diversity in the characters . After complaining to her husband that she could do better , he registered her for a romance writers conference and encouraged her to try her hand at writing . At the conference , Jackson met then - unpublished authors Francis Ray and Rochelle Alers and became inspired to write . Jackson was determined to write novels that are multicultural romances , featuring African - American characters , that " convey the belief that love is every. " . Her first novel , Tonight and Forever was published in 1995 . This and the next few books followed the fictional Madaris brothers , giving Jackson an opportunity to portray professional African - American men who were both " appreciative and respectful of women. " . Her heroes are in many ways inspired by her husband , whom she considers to be " a very strong African - American male is supportive and centers his life around his family. " . In 2001 , Jackson released her first mainstream women 's fiction novel , A Family Reunion . As with her previous romance novels , this book contains a " sexy spark , " as well as Jackson 's familiar " polished and confident " writing style , which allows her " characters burst with color right off the page. " . The following year , in 2002 , she became the first African - American author to have a novel published as part of the Silhouette Desire line . Despite publishing 11 books in the first ten years of her writing career , as of 2005 , Jackson considers writing to be her hobby , and she continues to work full - time as a manager at State Farm Insurance . Throughout her writing career , Jackson has written for several publishers , including St.Martins Press , BET , Kensington , NAL , Harlequin / Silhouette and Harlequin Kimani Romance . Jackson has received awards and made accomplishments by being the first African - American author to have a book published under the Harlequin / Silhouette Desire line of books and the first African - American romance author to make USA Today 's Bestseller 's List . Jackson has won the Romantic Times Career Achievement Award and four of her books have been nominated for Romantic Times Reviewer 's Choice . One of her novels , One Special Moment , won the Reviewer 's Choice Award in 1998 for Best Multicultural Romance . She received twelve nominations at the Romance Slam Jam 2001 's first annual Emma Awards 