Brendan Francis Behan ( Irish : Breandán Ó Beacháin ) ( February 9 , 1923 - March 20 , 1964 ) was an Irish poet , short story writer , novelist and playwright who wrote in both Irish and English . He was also a committed Irish Republican and an erstwhile member of the Irish Republican Army . Behan was one of the most successful Irish dramatists of the 20th century . Brendan was born in the inner city of Dublin on February 9 , 1923 into an educated working class family . He resided in a house owned by his granny English , who owned a number of properties in the area . His father Stephen Behan , a house painter who had been active in the Irish War of Independence , read classic literature to the children at bedtime from diverse sources such as Zola , Galsworthy and Maupassant ; while his mother Kathleen took them on literary tours of the city . If Brendan 's interest in literature came from his father , then his political prejudices were injected by his mother . Brendan said : " Only a deaf mute could be reared by my mother and be unable to catalogue England 's misdemeanours from Africa backwards. " . She remained politically active all her life , and was a personal friend of the famed Irish republican Michael Collins . Brendan wrote a lament to Collins : " The Laughing Boy , " at the age of thirteen . The title was derived from the affectionate name Mrs Behan gave Collins . She published her acclaimed autobiography " Mother of All The Behans , " a collaboration with her son Brian , in 1984 . Behan 's uncle Peadar Kearney wrote the Irish national anthem A Soldier 's Song . His brother , Dominic Behan , was also a renowned songwriter most famous for the rebel song The Patriot Game , while another sibling , Brian Behan , was a prominent radical political activist and public speaker , actor , author and playwright . He developed his taste for drink from his granny English , and knew what it was like to be inebriated well before his teens . His biographer Ulick O'Connor recalls one day , at the age of eight , he was returning home with his granny and a crony from a drinking session . At the age of thirteen , Behan left school to follow his father 's footsteps in the house painting business . In 1937 , the family moved to a new local authority housing scheme in Crumlin . Here , Behan became a member of Fianna Éireann , the youth organization of the IRA and published his first poems and prose in the organization 's magazine Fianna : the Voice of Young Ireland . He was also the youngest contributor to be published in the `Irish Press` when a poem of his entitled : " Reply of Young Boy to Pro - English verses " was published in 1931 . At the age of sixteen , ( in 1939 ) , he joined the IRA and embarked on an unauthorised solo mission to England to blow up Liverpool docks . There he was arrested in possession of explosives . He was sentenced to three years in a reform school ( or Borstal in British English ) ( see his autobiography " Borstal Boy " ) and did not return to Ireland until 1941 . In 1942 , during the timeframe leading to the IRA 's Northern Campaign Behan was 