Bret Easton Ellis ( born March 7 , 1964 in Los Angeles , California ) is an American author . He is considered to be one of the major Generation X authors and was regarded as one of the so - called literary Brat Pack , which also included Tama Janowitz and Jay McInerney . He has called himself a moralist , although he has often been pegged as a nihilist . His characters are young , generally vacuous people , who are aware of their depravity but choose to enjoy it . The novels are also linked by common , recurring characters , and dystopic locales ( such as Los Angeles and New York ) . He was born March 7 , 1964 in Los Angeles and raised in Sherman Oaks in the San Fernando Valley , the son of Robert Martin Ellis , a wealthy property developer , and Dale Ellis , a housewife . His parents divorced in 1982 . He was educated at The Buckley School , where he did not distinguish himself , and then took a music - based course at Bennington College in Vermont , which is thinly disguised as Camden Arts College in his novel The Rules Of Attraction and his other books . He was a part - time musician in some minor 1980s bands , such as The Parents , before his first book was published while he was still a student . Less Than Zero , a tale of disaffected , rich teenagers of Los Angeles , was praised by critics and sold well ( 50,000 copies in its first year ) . He moved to New York City in 1987 to release his second novel . His most controversial work , the graphically violent novel American Psycho , was intended to be published by Simon & Schuster , but they withdrew after external protests from interest groups such as the NOW and many others due to the perceived misogynistic nature of the book . The novel was later published by Vintage . Some consider this novel , whose protagonist , Patrick Bateman , is both a cartoonishly materialistic yuppie and a serial killer , to be an example of transgressive art . American Psycho has achieved considerable cult status and is considered by many to be Ellis ' magnum opus . He was known to be heterosexual for most of his life , but in August 2005 he broke his silence about his sexual orientation and told The New York Times that his best friend and lover for six years , Michael Wade Kaplan , died in January 2004 , at the age of 30 . The other dedication is to Michael Wade Kaplan , who Mr. Ellis said was his best friend and lover for six years , and who died , in January 2004 , at the age of 30 . They did not live together , Mr. Ellis said : " It was a very loose kind of partnership . It was not particularly conventional , and neither one of us was interested in the lifestyle , I guess. " . Mr. Kaplan died barely a month after Mr. Ellis had traveled from New York to Los Angeles to spend Christmas with his mother and two sisters , as he has in most years since he finished college and moved to Manhattan . He planned to spend a few months finishing the final draft of " Lunar Park " and then return to New York . Instead , he said , Mr. Kaplan 's unexpected 