Brett Halliday ( July 31 , 1904 - February 4 , 1977 ) , primary pen name of Davis Dresser , was an American mystery writer , best known for the long - lived series of Mike Shayne novels he wrote , and later commissioned others to write . Dresser wrote non - series mysteries , westerns and romances under the names Asa Baker , Matthew Blood , Kathryn Culver , Don Davis , Hal Debrett , Anthony Scott , Peter Field , Hal Debrett , Don Davis , and Anderson Wayne . He was born in Chicago , Illinois , but mostly grew up in West Texas . He lost an eye to barbed wire as a boy and wore an eye patch for the rest of his life . At the age of 14 , he ran away from home and enlisted in the U.S. 5th Cavalry Regiment at Fort Bliss , Texas , followed by a year of Border Patrol duty on the Rio Grande . After his service , he returned to Texas to finish high school . In search of adventure , Dresser traveled throughout the Southwest working at various odd jobs , including that of muleskinner , farm hand , deckhand on a freighter in the Gulf of Mexico , laborer in the California oilfields , etc . Eventually , he went to Tri - State College of Engineer , where he received a certificate in civil engineering . Back in Texas , he worked as an engineer and surveyor for several years before turning to writing in 1927 . After his first marriage ( to Kathleen Rollins , who had two daughters from a previous marriage ) , Dresser was married to mystery writer Helen McCloy from 1946 to 1961 ; they had a daughter named Chloe . As partners , they formed a literary agency called Halliday and McCloy . Dresser also established a publishing company Torquil Publishing Company , which published his books as well as those of other authors , from 1953 to 1965 . In 1961 , he married Mary Savage , also a writer ; their son was born in 1965 . The first Shayne novel was rejected by 21 publishers before being accepted by Henry Holt & Co. in 1939 . The Shayne series went on to be highly successful , reprinted in many editions and translated into French , Spanish , Italian , German , Swedish , Japanese and Hebrew . A radio series based on the Shayne character was heard during the 1940s . Twelve motion pictures were made , seven of them featuring Lloyd Nolan as Shayne . Five of the Nolan films , which were produced by 20th Century Fox , have been released on DVD : Michael Shayne , Private Detective ; Sleepers West ; Dressed to Kill ; Blue , White and Perfect ; and The Man Who Would n't Die . After the Fox series ended , five more Shayne films were made by PRC which featured Hugh Beaumont as the detective . There was also a TV series in 1960 , starring Richard Denning . The film Kiss Kiss Bang Bang is based partly on Halliday 's novel Bodies Are Where You Find Them . He was a founding member of the Mystery Writers of America , and in 1954 he and McCloy were given Edgar Awards for their critical writings on the genre . He lived in Santa Barbara , California , until his death at the age of 72 . 