Brian Lumley ( born December 2 , 1937 ) is a writer of horror fiction . Born in County Durham in northeast England , he joined the British Army and wrote stories in his spare time before retiring from the military in 1980 and becoming a professional writer . He added to H. P. Lovecraft 's Cthulhu Mythos cycle of stories , including several tales featuring the character Titus Crow . Others pastiched Lovecrafts 's Dream Cycle and featured the characters David Hero and Eldin the Wanderer . Lumley once explained the difference between his Cthulhu Mythos characters and Lovecraft 's : " My guys fight back . Also , they like to have a laugh along the way. " . Later works included the Necroscope series of novels , which produced spin - off series such as the Vampire World Trilogy , The Lost Years parts 1 and 2 , and the E - Branch trilogy . The central protagonist of the earlier Necroscope novels appears in the anthology Harry Keogh and Other Weird Heroes . The Necroscope saga is closed with the novel The Touch . Lumley 's list of his favourite horror stories - - " not complete by any means and by no means in order of preference " - - includes M. R. James ' " Count Magnus " , Robert E. Howard 's " The Black Stone " , Robert W. Chambers ' " The Yellow Sign " from The King in Yellow , William Hope Hodgson 's " The Voice in the Night " , and H. P. Lovecraft 's " The Haunter of the Dark " and " The Colour out of Space " . Necroscope II : Wamphyri ! . US Title : Necroscope II : Vampyri ! . Tarra Khash : Hrossak ! . Lumley has written many original as well as some reminiscent of Richard Matheson and H. P. Lovecraft.Here is a selected bibliography of his short story collections . Harry Keogh : Necroscope and Other Weird Heroes ! . Note : This list is not exhaustive . Being a prolific writer of novels and short stories , Lumley has had many pieces published in titles under his own name only , as well as periodicals , partworks and other publications alongside other writers of note . 