Michael Bruce Sterling ( born April 14 , 1954 ) is an American science fiction author , best known for his novels and his seminal work on the Mirrorshades anthology , which defined the cyberpunk genre . In 2003 he was appointed Professor at the European Graduate School where he is teaching Summer Intensive Courses on media and design . In 2005 , he became " visionary in residence " at Art Center College of Design in Pasadena , California . Sterling is , along with William Gibson , Tom Maddox , Rudy Rucker , John Shirley , Lewis Shiner , and Pat Cadigan , one of the founders of the cyberpunk movement in science fiction , as well as its chief ideological promulgator , and one whose polemics on the topic earned him the nickname " Chairman Bruce " . He was also one of the first organizers of the Turkey City Writer 's Workshop , and is a frequent attendee at the Sycamore Hill Writer 's Workshop . He won Hugo Awards for the novelette " Bicycle Repairman " and the novella " Taklamakan " . His first novel , Involution Ocean , published in 1977 , features the world Nullaqua where all the atmosphere is contained in a single , miles - deep crater ; the story concerns a ship sailing on the ocean of dust at the bottom , which hunts creatures called dustwhales that live beneath the surface . It is partially a science - fictional pastiche of Moby - Dick by Herman Melville . From the late 1970s onwards , Sterling wrote a series of stories set in the Shaper / Mechanist universe : the solar system is colonised , with two major warring factions . The Mechanists use a great deal of computer - based mechanical technologies ; the Shapers do genetic engineering on a massive scale . The situation is complicated by the eventual contact with alien civilizations ; humanity eventually splits into many subspecies , with the implication that many of these effectively vanish from the galaxy , reminiscent of The Singularity in the works of Vernor Vinge . The Shaper / Mechanist stories can be found in the collection Crystal Express and the collection Schismatrix Plus , which contains the original novel Schismatrix and all of the stories set in the Shaper / Mechanist universe . Alastair Reynolds identified Schismatrix and the other Shaper / Mechanist stories as one of the greatest influences on his own work . In the 1980s , Sterling edited a series of science fiction newsletters called Cheap Truth , under the alias of Vincent Omniaveritas . He wrote a column called Catscan , for the now - defunct science fiction critical magazine , SF Eye . The Dead Media Project - A collection of " research notes " on dead media technologies , from Incan quipus , through Victorian phenakistoscopes , to the departed video game and home computers of the 1980s . The Viridian Design Movement - his attempt to create a " green " design movement focused on high - tech , stylish , and ecologically sound design . The Viridian Design home page , including Sterling 's Viridian Manifesto and all of his Viridian Notes , is managed by Jon Lebkowsky at http : / / www.viridiandesign.org . The Viridian Movement helped to spawn the popular " bright green " environmental weblog Worldchanging . WorldChanging contributors include many of the original members of the Viridian " curia " . Sterling has a habit of coining and popularizing neologisms to describe things which 