Caiseal Mor is a bestselling fantasy novelist . He is an Australian of Irish decent . Irish folklore is a huge inspiration for his works . Mor also records music in his spare time , with six albums of original music . He is well known for his lavish book and album covers , all designed by himself . As a child he was diagnosed on the autistic spectrum , disclosed in his soon to be published autobiographyA Blessing and a Curse ; Autism and Me ( 2007 ) . Caiseal ( pronounced Cash'l ) is Gaelic for " circular stone fort " . Recurring themes in Mor 's novels includes religion , theology , gods and deities , kingdoms and empires and ancient times . His books are set in Ireland , Scotland and a personal interpretation of the Celtic Otherworld which he refers to as the Far Country . Caiseal has been sharing his life with his partner , artist Helen Wells , for 4 years . Helen produced the cover of Caiseal 's upcoming autobiography , A Blessing and a Curse , and is a featured artist on Caiseal 's album The Well of Yearning . They are currently collaborating on a book about dreadlocks . Caiseal makes drums , performs with Helen and they regularly travel and stay in their traditional Mongolian yurt . Caiseal Mor squandered his youth in the town of Woop - Woop , Queensland . Diagnosed as autistic at a young age he struggled to be " normal " and failed spectacularly . At twenty , after years of trying to fit in , he got it into his head to run away and join the circus . Within a year he’d moved into a damp share - house in North London . It was during his stay in England he first encountered eccentricity as a way of life and this experience inspired him to cut a path somewhat at odds with the establishment . When his working holiday visa expired he returned to Australia intending to study . A degree in theatre arts proved to be an excellent preparation for the life of a ne’er - do - well . Nevertheless , for a short while , he managed to secure paid employment as a high school teacher . His first novel , " The Circle and The Cross , was a bestseller when it was published in 1994 . These days he 's kept busy as a writer , sculptor , musician and traveller . Caiseal is currently living on a precarious income somewhere in the wilds of Eastern Victoria . His life is blessed by the presence of his best friend , Helen and an assortment of inquisitive marsupials.His former website - www.caiseal.net is no longer active . Caiseal Mor 's autobiography , A Blessing and a Curse ; Autism and Me , published by Jessica Kingsley Publishers due out May 2007 , reveals his autistic childhood and diagnosis on the autistic spectrum . An interview with Caiseal Mor , by the autistic author Donna Williams . An audio interview with Caiseal Mor , by the autistic author Donna Williams . 