Camilo Ferreira Botelho Castelo - Branco was born out of wedlock and orphaned in infancy . He spent his early years in a village in Traz - os - Montes . He fell in love with the poetry of Luís de Camões and Manuel Maria Barbosa de Bocage , while Fernão Mendes Pinto gave him a lust for adventure , but Camilo was a distracted student and grew up to be undisciplined and proud . He intermittently studied medicine and theology in Oporto and Coimbra and eventually chose to become a writer . After a spell of journalistic work in Oporto and Lisbon he proceeded to the episcopal seminary in Oporto in order to study for the priesthood . During this period Camilo wrote a number of religious works and translated the work of François - René de Chateaubriand . Camilo actually took minor holy orders , but his restless nature drew him away from the priesthood and he devoted himself to literature for the rest of his life . He was arrested twice , the second time due to his adulterous affair with Ana Plácido , who was married at the time . During his incarceration he wrote his most famous work Amor de Perdição and later it inspired his Memórias do Cárcere ( literally " Memories of Prison " ) . Camilo was made a viscount ( Visconde de Correia Botelho ) in 1885 in recognition of his contributions to literature , and when his health deteriorated and he could no longer write , parliament gave him a pension for life . Going blind ( because of syphilis ) and suffering from chronic nervous disease , Castelo Branco committed suicide in 1890 . Camilo Castelo Branco is probably the most prolific of all Portuguese writers , his work including novels , plays , verse , and essays . In addition , Camilo was the first Portuguese writer able to support himself financially from his writing alone . In all , his publications number about two hundred and sixty , but he is best known for his romances . Even though Camilo churned out a lot of work to pay the bills , he never lost his individuality . His familiarity with personalities allowed him to enliven his writing with a succession of memorable characters and Portuguese types , such as the " brasileiro " ( a returned Portuguese emigrant who had made his fortune in Brazil ) , the old " Fidalgo " ( nobleman ) of the north of Portugal , and the Minho priest . Camilo 's novels may be divided into three periods . The first period comprises his romances of the imagination , of which Os Mistérios de Lisboa , in the style of Victor Hugo , is a fair example . The second period includes his novels of manners , a style he developed and remained the chief exponent of until the appearance of O Crime de Padre Amaro by Eça de Queiroz . In these novels he combines realism and idealism , and perfectly captures the domestic and social life of Portugal in the early part of the 19th century . The third period embraces his writings in the realms of history , biography and literary criticism . Among these may be cited Noites de Lamego , Cousas leves e pesadas , Cavar em ruínas , Memórias do Bispo do Grão Pará and Boémia do Espírito . Among the most notable of his romances are O Romance de un Homem Rico , his favorite , Retrato de Ricardina , Amor de Perdição 