Cao Xueqin ( Chinese : 曹雪芹 ; pinyin : Cáo Xuěqín ; Wade - Giles : Ts'ao Hsueh - ch'in , ca. 1715—1763 ) is the author of Dream of the Red Chamber , believed by many to be the greatest novel written in the Chinese language . His given name was Cao Zhan ( 曹霑 ) and his courtesy name is Mengruan ( 夢阮 ) . Cao belong to a Han Chinese clan which later became part of the Plain White Branch ( 正白旗 ) of the Manchu Banners . Although forced into slavery ( 包衣 ) to Manchu royalties in the late 1610s , his ancestors distinguished themselves through military campaigns and subsequently held posts in officialdom . Under the Emperor Kangxi the clan 's prestige and power reaches its height . Cao Xueqin 's grandfather , Cao Yin ( 曹寅 ) , was a former playmate to the Emperor Kangxi , and Cao Yin 's own mother was the wet nurse to the infant Kangxi . Two years upon his ascension , Kangxi appointed Cao Xueqin 's great - grandfather , Cao Xi ( 曹玺 ) , as the Commissioner of Imperial Textiles in Jiangning . When Cao Xi died in 1684 , Yin , as Kangxi 's personal confidante , took over the post . Cao Yin was one of the era 's most prominent man of letters and a keen book collector . By the early 1700s , the Cao clan had become so rich and influential as to be able to play host four times to the Emperor Kangxi in his six separate itinerant trips down south to Nanjing . When Cao Yin died in 1712 , Kangxi , still in power , passed the office over to Yin 's only son , Cao Yong ( 曹颙 ) . Yong himself died in 1715 . Kangxi then allowed the family to adopt a paternal nephew , Cao Fu ( 曹頫 ) , as Cao Yin 's posthumous son to continue in that position . Hence the clan held the office of Imperial Textile Commissioner at Jiangning for three generations . The family 's fortunes lasted until Kangxi 's death and the ascension of Emperor Yongzheng to the throne . Yongzheng was much less tolerant of the debts the family chalked in office . By 1727 , after a series of warnings , he decided to confiscate the entire Cao house properties , including their mansion , and put Cao Fu under arrest . Many believe this purge was politically motivated . When Cao Fu was released a year later , the family , totally impoverished , was forced to relocate to Beijing . Cao Xueqin , still a young child then , followed the family in this odyssey . Cao Xueqin was either the son of Cao Fu or Cao Yong . If his father was Cao Yong he must be born in 1715 , posthumous to Yong 's death . Redology scholars are still debating Cao Xueqin 's exact date of birth , though he is known to be around forty to fifty at his death . Almost nothing has survived which records Cao Xueqin 's early childhood and adulthood . Most of what we know about Cao Xueqin was passed down from his contemporaries and friends . Cao himself eventually settled in the Western suburbs of Beijing where he lived through the larger part of his late years in poverty selling off his paintings . Friends and acquaintances reported an intelligent , highly talented man who spent a decade working diligently on 