Carlos Castaneda ( December 25 , 1925 – April 27 , 1998 ) was a Peruvian - born American author . He wrote a series of books that purport to describe his training in traditional Mesoamerican shamanism , which he referred to as a form of sorcery . The books and Castaneda , who rarely spoke in public about his work , have been controversial for many years . Supporters claim the books are either true or at least valuable works of philosophy and descriptions of practices which enable an increased awareness . Critics claim the books are shams , works of fiction , and not empirically verifiable works of anthropology as claimed . In his books , Castaneda narrates in first person the events leading to and ensuing after his meeting a Yaqui shaman named don Juan Matus in 1960 . Castaneda 's experiences with don Juan allegedly inspired the works for which he is known . He claimed to have inherited from don Juan the position of nagual , or leader of a party of seers . He also used the term " nagual " to signify that part of perception which is in the realm of the unknown yet still reachable by man , implying that , for his party of seers , don Juan was a connection in some way to that unknown . Castaneda often referred to this unknown realm as nonordinary reality , which indicated that this realm was indeed a reality , but radically different from the ordinary reality experienced by human beings . Nagual has been used by anthropologists to mean a shaman or sorcerer who is capable of shapeshifting into an animal form , and / or , metaphorically , to " shift " into another form through Toltec magic rituals , shamanism and experiences with psychoactive drugs ( e.g. , peyote and jimson weed ) . Carlos Castaneda 's works have sold more than 8 million copies in 17 languages . Oddly enough , even though purportedly the first four books were originally written in Spanish , a translator was needed in order to produce their Spanish editions . It is claimed that Castaneda was born in São Paulo , Brazil on Christmas Day in 1931 . Immigration records , however , indicate that he was born six years earlier in Cajamarca , Perú . Castaneda also claimed that " Castaneda " was an adopted name , but records show that it was given by his mother Susana Castañeda Navoa . His surname appears with the Ñ in many Hispanic dictionaries , even though his famous published works display an anglicised version . He moved to the United States in the early 1950s and became a naturalized citizen in 1957 . He was educated at the University of California , Los Angeles ( UCLA ) ( B.A. 1962 ; Ph.D. 1970 ) . Castaneda wrote twelve books and several academic articles detailing his experiences with the Yaqui Indians indigenous to parts of Central Mexico . His first three books , The Teachings of Don Juan : A Yaqui Way of Knowledge , A Separate Reality and Journey to Ixtlan were written while Castaneda was an anthropology student at UCLA . Castaneda wrote these books as if they were his research log describing his apprenticeship with a traditional shaman identified as don Juan Matus . Castaneda was awarded his bachelor 's and doctoral degrees for the work described in these books . His writings have been criticized by academics , and are seen as highly suspect in terms of strict anthropological 