Carl Gottlieb ( born 18 March 1938 in New York City ) is an American screenwriter , actor , comedian and executive . He is probably best known for co - writing the screenplay for Jaws , as well as directing the 1981 low - budget cult film Caveman . After studying drama at Syracuse University , he became a member , in the 1960s , of the San Francisco improvisational comedy troupe " The Committee " . They made one feature film : A Session with the Committee . He began writing comedy for TV , contributing to The Bob Newhart Show ( 1972 ) , All in the Family , and The Odd Couple . Minor acting roles have included M * A * S * H and Clueless . He joined the Writers Guild of America in 1968 after becoming interested in Guild politics and being of service to fellow writers after writers ' strikes in the 1970s and 1981 . He ran for the Board of Directors in 1983 , and has been re - elected for numerous terms ever since , including two stints as vice - president ( 1991 - 1994 ) . He was again appointed VP of the Writers Guild of America , west in 2004 . Gottlieb was hired as an actor to appear as Meadows , the editor of the local newspaper , in Jaws . He was hired by his friend , Steven Spielberg , to redraft the script , adding more dimensions to the characters , particularly humour . Ironically , his redrafts reduced the role of Meadows ( who still appears in the Town Hall corridor and the Tiger Shark scene ) . He wrote a book , The Jaws Log , about the notoriously difficult production of the film . Bryan Singer has referred to it as being " like a little movie director bible " . He was also enlisted under similar circumstances to work on the Jaws 2 screenplay . He also co - wrote the screenplays for The Jerk and Jaws 3 - D . Gottlieb contributes to Jaws related activities , such as interviews ( including for the upcoming The Shark is Still Working ) and attended JawsFest on Martha 's Vineyard in June 2005 . Fish Tales Screenwriter Carl Gottlieb plumbs the depths of his memory as he reminisces about his role in bringing Jaws to the screen . 