Caroline Miller was born and raised in Bethesda , Maryland . She attended the prestigious schools of Norwood School and National Cathedral School . She developed the eating disorder of bulimia at the age of thirteen , when a few of her friends showed her how to binge and purge to keep her weight down . She was accepted to Harvard University where she met her future husband . She became engaged at the age of nineteen to Haywood Miller , and after graduating Harvard magna cum laude in 1981 , the two got married . It was n't until after their honeymoon in Jamaica that Miller informed her husband of her eating disorder . She became involved in organizations such as Overeaters Anonymous to recover . My Name is Caroline is one of the first books written by a survivor of an eating disorder , and it resulted in countless television and radio appearances by Miller , as well as international coverage in newspapers and magazines . To date , Miller has received well over 25,000 letters and phone calls from people who say the book saved their life , as well as from professionals who say that it is an invaluable tool in helping family members understand the struggles of a loved one who has an eating disorder . Feeding the Soul is a spiritual meditation book for those suffering from eating disorders . It features 365 inspirational essays , one for each day of the year , that address such topics as depression , motivation , change , holiday eating , families , growth and gratitude . This is a wonderful way to start each day , and it makes a great gift for someone who is taking her recovery one day at a timeBright Words for Dark Days is one of the first spiritual meditation books to address the topic of women and depression . Among the many areas covered in this book are post - partum depression , the death of loved ones , the sadness that accompanies change , and the special issues that challenge women . This book has been translated into several languages . Miller is working on a new book , called Positive Goals . Happy people have a strong sense of personal agency , and they tend to set harder and more challenging goals , which gets them more of what they want in life . Learn how to develop your own sense of self - efficacy , create powerful mastery experiences , and use your environment to work for you and not against you . She is also writing a sequel to My Name is Caroline , which will include a chapter written by her daughter , Samantha Miller . Caroline Adams Miller is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard University , a graduate of CoachU , and an ACC - credentialed coach through the International Coach Federation . In May 2006 , she graduated from the ground - breaking Masters in Applied Positive Psychology program at the University of Pennsylvania . The MAPP program is the first masters program in the world that offers in - depth study of the science of well - being , which Miller is using in her coaching practice to help clients set and achieve their goals to maximize well - being and self - efficacy . The MAPP program is led by renowned psychologist , Martin Seligman , and Miller is one of the only coaches selected for this unique education . Miller is also a graduate of the Corporate Athlete 