Carol Leifer ( born July 27 , 1956 in Long Island , New York ) is an American comedian best known as Jerry Seinfeld 's ex - girlfriend , as well as the basis for the character Elaine Benes on the television show , Seinfeld . Leifer is an accomplished stand - up comedian , writer , producer and actor and has been involved in such television shows as Seinfeld , It 's Like , You Know . . . , Alright Already , and The Larry Sanders Show . In 1988 , she had her own special on Cinemax titled Carol Does n't Leifer Anymore , which was produced by David Letterman . This was shortly followed several more specials , tiled Carol Leifer Comedy Cruise ( 1989 ) , Really Big Show ( 1990 ) , and Gaudy , Baudy , and Blue ( 1992 ) . No stranger to the late - night TV circuit , she has performed on Late Night With David Letterman 25 times . Carol has also appeared on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson , Dr. Katz , Politically Incorrect with Bill Maher , Hollywood Squares , Late Night with Conan O'Brien , and The Tonight Show with Jay Leno . Her hosting duties have included four seasons of A&E 's Caroline 's Comedy Hour , as well as guest stints on Talk Soup and Later . Her stand - up merits include opening for Jerry Seinfeld and Frank Sinatra . Sinatra was later heard praising Leifer , saying " I wish my mother had been that funny - I would n't have had to work so hard. " . She is still currently working the stand - up circuit and is supposedly writing an original picture for Dreamworks . Carol Leifer joined the Seinfeld writing staff during its fifth season , and wrote 6 episodes for the show between then and its seventh season . The July 30 , 2006 edition of the Los Angeles Times reported that Leifer and her domestic partner , Lori Wolf , had just purchased a new home in the Santa Monica Mountains in anticipation of the couple adopting a baby boy . Leifer signed the " We Had Abortions " petition which appears in the October 2006 issue of Ms. Magazine . The petition contains signatures of over 5,000 women declaring they had an abortion and were " unashamed of ( the ) decision. " . 