Carter Curtis Revard ( born March 25 , 1931 ) is an American poet , writer and scholar . He is part Osage on his father 's side . He is also known by his Osage name , Nom - Peh - Wah - The given to him in 1952 by his grandmother , Mrs. Josephine Jump . Revard was born in Pawhuska , Oklahoma , an Osage Indian Agency town . His early education on the Osage reservation was in a single room with all the other grades of his school . In this environment , schoolwork was coupled with farming and other odd jobs , including greyhound training , but Revard still credits his teachers at the time with inspiring his interest in literature and science . A scholarship won on the back of a radio quiz enabled him to earn a BA at the University of Tulsa , and there he prospered well enough to gain a Rhodes Scholarship that enabled him to study at Oxford University , earning a BA there as well . A PhD at Yale University followed in 1959 . Since gaining his doctorate , Revard taught at Amherst College . For most of his career , he has taught at Washington University in St. Louis , beginning in 1961 . He has been a visiting professor at the University of Tulsa and the University of Oklahoma . Unusual for a Native American professor , Revard 's major scholarly focus throughout his career has been on medieval British manuscripts , and their social context . He is a respected voice in this field . Revard has also produced scholarly work on linguistics ( specifically on the transition between Middle English and later forms of the language ) and Native American literature . In 1980 Revard published his first anthology , Ponca War Dances , revealing himself as a new , strongly political voice in Native American poetry . Revard has gone on to publish several more anthologies of poetry , the best known of which is probably An Eagle Nation . In most of his works , he interweaves poetry , autobiographical recollections and short , sometimes allegorical stories . His poems have also appeared in numerous journals and anthologies , and his work has been translated into French , Italian and Hungarian . An issue of the journal Studies in American Indian Literatures ( SAIL ) ( Spring 2003 ) was entirely devoted to discussions of his work . Carter Revard is a member of the Modern Language Association ( MLA ) , the Association for Studies in American Indian Literature , the River Styx Literary Organization , the Association of American Rhodes Scholars , the University of Tulsa Board of Visitors , the St. Louis Gourd Dancers and Phi Beta Kappa . He has served the American Indian Center of St. Louis as board member , Secretary and President . 