Antônio de Castro Alves ( March 14 , 1847 - July 6 , 1871 ) , more commonly known as Castro Alves ( pron . IPA : ) , was a Brazilian poet best remembered for his abolitionist and republican poems , and is considered one of the most important Brazilian poets of the 19th century . Alves was born in the town of Cachoeira , Bahia , Brazil . In 1862 , he entered the Faculdade de Direito do Recife , was involved in an affair with Portuguese actress Eugênia Câmara and wrote his first abolitionist poems : " Os Escravos " ( The Slaves ) and " A Cachoeira de Paulo Afonso " ( Paulo Afonso 's Waterfall ) , reading them out loud in public events in defense of the abolitionist cause . Even though many Brazilians stood up against it at that time , slavery in Brazil was not officially ended until 1888 , when Princess Isabel , daughter of Dom Pedro II , declared it extinct by means of the Lei Áurea ( Golden Law ) . In 1867 , Alves left Recife and returned Bahia , where he wrote his dramatic play " Gonzaga " . He later moved to Rio de Janeiro , where he met influential people such as José de Alencar , Francisco Otaviano and Machado de Assis , from whom he got moral support . Alves headed south to São Paulo to take courses at Sao Francisco Law School . While there he met important writers and politicians , such as Rui Barbosa , Joaquim Nabuco , Rodrigues Alves , Afonso Pena and Bias Fortes . On November 11 1868 , while hunting in the surroundings of São Paulo , he was shot in the left ankle , which led to the amputation of his feet . Soon afterwards Alves contracted tuberculosis , a very common disease in São Paulo at that time due to the dark and untidy pubs around town and chilly weather , which forced him to return to his home land , Bahia . He died on July 6 , 1871 , in the city of Salvador . Alves 's work stands in the late - Romantic aesthetic and is deeply influenced by the work of the French poet Victor Hugo in a movement called condoreirismo , which is marked by the introspection of the Romantic period with a social and humanitarian concern . These concerns led him to the incipient Abolitionism and Republicanism , of whose causes he was one of the foremost representatives . His poetry is more optimistic in tone than early romantic poets , and is marked by more sensual and physical images than is usual to the Romantic Aesthetic . He was not attached to the ( sometimes official ) indigenism shown by José de Alencar or Gonçalves Dias , nor had the mal - du - siècle aesthetic of Álvares de Azevedo . As a result of this , his work is usually considered to be late - romantic , tending to the later Realist movement . Among his best known works are : " Espumas Flutuantes " ( Floating Foams ) , " Gonzaga ou A Revolução de Minas " ( Gonzaga or the Revolution of Minas ) , " Cachoeira de Paulo Afonso " , " Vozes D'África " ( Voices from Africa ) , " O Navio Negreiro " ( The Slave Ship ) . 