Catherine Coulter ( born December 26 , 1942 in Cameron County , Texas ) is the maiden name ( and pen name ) of Jean Catherine Coulter Pogany , is an American author of romantic suspense thrillers and historical romances who currently resides in Northern California with her husband Anton Pogany . Coulter grew up on a horse ranch in the state of Texas . She comes from a family of creative people . Her grandmother , who died at the young age of 37 , was also a writer . Coulter 's father is a painter and singer , and her mother is a retired concert pianist . Coulter wrote her first two novels , fifteen pages each , when she was fourteen . While a freshman at University of Texas , Coulter wrote poetry . After earning her undergraduate degree from the University of Texas , Coulter attended Boston College and earned a Master 's degree in early 19th century European history . Coulter took a job as a speech writer for a Wall Street company president . Because her husband was a medical student , she spent many of her evenings alone , reading romance novels . One night when they were home together , Coulter found herself in the middle of a particularly bad book and threw it across room , asserting that even she could do better . Her husband challenged her to prove herself , and the two spent the weekend plotting out a storyline for a gothic romance . Coulter wrote the novel in the evenings . When Coulter finished writing her novel she sent it to an editor at Signet , the premiere Regency romance publisher . Three days later Signet offered her a three - book contract . That first novel , The Autumn Countess , was published by Penguin Books in 1978 . By 1982 , she was earning enough to quit her job and become a full - time writer . Since then she has written over fifty books and has had forty - two consecutive New York Times Bestsellers since 1988 . Her thriller The Maze was her first book to place on the New York Times Hardcover Bestseller list , while The Cove spent nine weeks on the New York Times Paperback Bestseller list and sold over one million copies . Coulter generally publishes one historical romance and one suspense novel each year , and has been busily rewriting many of her earlier Regency romances to turn them into longer historical romances . Coulter sits down to her computer every morning at 6:30 a.m. to review her email before beginning writing at 7:30 a.m . She normally finishes writing by 11 a.m . Coulter lives in Marin County , California with her husband , Anton Pogany , who is a physician . They travel often , and Coulter loves to ski . The Offer ( orig . The Deception ( orig . The Countess ( orig . The Heir ( orig . The Duke ( orig . Lord Harry ( orig . The Beginning ( The Cove & The Maze - - together in 1 book - - Sep . Authors on the Web.com . Die Bueckerecke Romantische . The Romance Reader . 