Cecil Day - Lewis ( or Day Lewis ) CBE ( 27 April 1904 – 22 May 1972 ) was a British poet , the British Poet Laureate from 1967 to 1972 , and , under the pseudonym of Nicholas Blake , a mystery writer . Born in Ballintubbert , Laois , Ireland . He was the son of the Rev. Frank Cecil Day - Lewis and Kathleen Squires . After Day - Lewis 's mother died in 1906 , he was brought up in London by his father , with the help of an aunt . He was educated at Sherborne School and at Wadham College , Oxford , from which he graduated in 1927 . In Oxford he became part of the circle gathered around W.H. Auden and helped him to edit Oxford Poetry 1927 . His first collection of poems , Beechen Vigil , appeared in 1925 . In his youth Day - Lewis adopted communist views , becoming a member of the Communist party from 1935 to 1938 , and his early poetry was marked by didacticism and a preoccupation with social themes . He served as a partisan in the Republican Army during the Spanish Civil War , but after the late 1930s he gradually became disillusioned , . Among his works is his autobiography , Buried Day ( 1960 ) , in which he renounces his communist views . In 1928 he married Mary King , the daughter of a Sherborne master ( i.e. teacher ) , and worked as a schoolmaster in three schools . His second marriage was to actress Jill Balcon . In 1935 Day - Lewis decided to supplement his income from poetry by writing a detective novel , A Question of Proof , in which he created Nigel Strangeways , an amateur investigator , who , as the nephew of an Assistant Commissioner at Scotland Yard , has the same access to , and good relations with , official crime investigation bodies as those enjoyed by other fictional sleuths such as Ellery Queen , Philo Vance and Lord Peter Wimsey . This was followed by nineteen more crime novels . From the mid - 1930s Day - Lewis was able to earn his living by writing . During the Second World War he worked as a publications editor in the Ministry of Information , an institution satirised by George Orwell in his dystopia Nineteen Eighty - Four , but equally based on Orwell 's experience of the BBC . His work was now no longer so influenced by Auden and he was developing a more traditional style of lyricism . Some critics believe that he reached his full stature as a poet in Word Over All ( 1943 ) , when he finally distanced himself from Auden . After the war , he joined publisher Chatto & Windus as a director and senior editor . In 1946 , Day Lewis was a lecturer at Cambridge University , publishing his lectures in The Poetic Image ( 1947 ) . In 1951 , he married the actress Jill Balcon , daughter of Michael Balcon . He later taught poetry at Oxford , where he was Professor of Poetry from 1951 - 1956 . Day - Lewis 's two marriages yielded five children , including Academy Award - winning actor Daniel Day - Lewis , food writer and journalist Tamasin Day - Lewis , and TV critic and writer Sean Day - Lewis , who wrote a biography of his father , C. Day Lewis : An English Literary Life ( 1980 