Celeste De Blasis ( 1946 - 2001 ) was a successful American author of historical romance novels . Celeste N. De Blasis was born on May 8 , 1946 in Santa Monica , California . She grew up at the Kemper Campbell Ranch in Victorville , California located in the high Mojave Desert . She attended Wellesley College , later transferred to Oregon State University , and in 1968 was graduated from Pomona College where longing to be back home at the ranch had drawn her . She continued to live on the ranch until her death of cancer on April 13 , 2001 . Celeste De Blasis was published in a number of poetry magazines , including " Manifold " ( London ) , " Kauri " and " Sandcutters " . In 1969 she was given the Southern Division National League of Pen Women Award for Letters for her poetry . In 1975 , De Blasis published her first novel titled " The Night Child " and was followed the next year by " Suffer A Sea Change " ( 1976 ) . Her third book , titled " The Proud Breed " ( 1978 ) was about having pride in being a Californian . Of the novel , De Blasis observed , " This story is very dear to me , and the need to write it came from the demands of pride . I grew up in an educational system that taught me more about the eastern seaboard than I needed to know and almost nothing about California . . . and the paucity of that history grew to be more and more galling . In the writing of ' The Proud Breed ' I have discovered what an immensely rich , varied and intricate weaving has made the fabric of this state , and I am proud to be even so small a thread in the pattern. " . The book became a Doubleday Book Club selection . In 1981 , De Blasis published " The Tiger 's Woman " . The book became Doubleday Book Club and Literary Guild selections . De Blasis then embarked on her most ambitious and successful work , the " Wild Swan " triliogy . The first volume , " Wild Swan " was published in 1984 and was quickly followed by " Swan 's Chance " in 1985 . The final volume of the trilogy , " A Season of Swan 's " was published in 1989 . Her final book did not follow her proven historical romance formula . It was a biographical work titled " Graveyard Peaches " about her life at the Kemper Campbell Ranch in Victorville , California . After the publication of this work , Celeste De Blasis battled cancer until her death in 2001 . She was cremated and her ashes were spread along her favorite trail at the Kemper Campbell Ranch where she had walked nearly everyday . 