Charlotte Delbo , ( August 10 , 1913 - March 1 , 1985 ) , was a French writer chiefly known for her haunting memoirs of her time as a prisoner in Auschwitz , where she was sent for her activities as a member of the French resistance . Born in Vigneux - sur - Seine near Paris , Delbo gravitated toward theater and politics in her youth , joining the French Young Communist Women’s League in 1932 . She met and married George Dudach two years later . Later in the decade she went to work for producer Louis Jouvet and was with his company in Buenos Aires when Wehrmacht forces invaded and occupied France in 1940 . She could have waited to return when Philippe Pétain , leader of the collaborationist Vichy regime , established special courts in 1941 to deal with members of the resistance . One sentenced a friend of hers , a young architect named Andre Woog , to death . Accordingly she returned to Paris and Dudach , who was already active in the resistance as the assigned courier for the internationally famous poet Louis Aragon . The couple spent much of that winter printing and distributing pamphlets and other anti - Nazi Germany reading material . They became part of the group around communist philosopher Georges Politzer , and took an active role in publishing the underground journal Lettres Françaises . On March 2,1942 , police followed a careless courier to their apartment , and arrested Georges and Charlotte . The courier was able to escape from a back window . Dudach was shot on the morning of May 23 after being allowed to bid his wife farewell . Delbo was held in transit camps near Paris for the rest of the year ; then on January 23 , 1943 , she and 229 other Frenchwomen imprisoned for their resistance activities were put on a train for the Auschwitz concentration camp . It was one of only a few convoys of non - Jewish prisoners from France to that camp ( most were sent to the Mauthausen - Gusen concentration camp or other camps for political prisoners ) and the only convoy of women . Only 49 returned ; she wrote about this experience later in Le convoi du 24 janvier ( published in English as Convoy to Auschwitz ) . The convoy entered camp legend as the only one to enter the gates singing : they sang " La Marseillaise , " as one woman , Annette Epaux , would again later on her way to the gas chamber . It was partly thanks to the presence of several scientists among the prisoners ( others were Laure Gatet and Madeleine Dechavassine ) that a few , Delbo included , were selected to farm kok - saghyz and survived . Most of the women on the convoy , however , were poor and uneducated and nearly all Communists . One of their number , Danielle Casanova , would be eulogized as a Communist martyr and role model for many years . Delbo later debunked much of the Casanova legend . She paid more tribute to her working - class friends such as Lulu Thevenin , Christiane " Cecile " Charua ( later married to historian and Mauthausen survivor Jose Borras ) , Jeannette " Carmen " Serre , Madeleine Doiret , and Simone " Poupette " Alizon , many of whom figure prominently in her memoirs . The women were in Auschwitz , first at Birkenau and later the Raisko satellite camp , 