Sir Charles Lloyd Birkin , 5th Baronet ( September 24 , 1907 - 1986 ) , was an English author of horror short stories and the editor of the Creeps Library of anthologies . Typically working under the pseudonym Charles Lloyd , Birkin 's tales tended towards the contes cruels rather than supernatural fiction . In the 1960 's one author was almost solely responsible for keeping the horror genre alive in Britain , Sir Charles Birkin . The stories of Charles Birkin , however , are not for the squeamish . Be warned , if you are at all sensitive , leave him well alone . He deals unflinchingly with such subjects as murder , rape , concentration camps , patricide , mutilation and torture . The Kiss Of Death & Other Horror Stories ( Tandem , 1964 ; rpt . The Smell of Evil ( Tandem , 1965 ; rpt . My Name Is Death & Other New Tales of Horror ( Panther , 1966 ; rpt . The Tandem Book of Ghost Stories ( Tandem , 1965 ) rpt . The Tandem Book of Horror Stories ( Tandem , 1965 ) rpt . The following summaries were written by and posted to the . Grisly poem in which Thelma tries to blackmail Rodney over their affair and is eaten by rats for her sins . Eventually she 's reduced to a fungus - ridden compost heap which the hero henceforth utilizes whenever he wishes to be rid of a troublesome woman . We are hungry . Oh , so hungry . Notting Hill , West London . Simon Cust , a tenacious journalist with the Daily Echo , is intent on an interview with the male and female leads in the touring ' Ballet Negre du Port - au - Prince ' . Their manager , Emanuel Louis regretfully informs him that his request is impossible to comply with , so Simon tracks them back to their hotel . Too late , he wishes he had n't . Poor little rich boy Ray Dawson , furious that his mother Lynette wo n't raise his already obscene allowance , storms off for a few days to punish her . When he picks up worldly hitchhiker Pearl he pours out all his troubles . . . plus too much information about his mother 's vast wealth and his own impending inheritance . Pearl knows some people who can help him get his hands on a down - payment . Unfortunately , these turn out to be her ruthlessly ambitious brother , Trad , and his vaguely psychotic sidekick Pete . They decide to stage a ' kidnapping ' . . . Kent. Little Charmain Weiden finds a brightly coloured seed in the garden . And eats it . She falls ill and complains of " caterpillars " crawling up her throat , suffocating her . Peter arranges to meet a fellow thrill - seeker at The Blue Lizard , a notorious rough house in the shadow of the Bastille . Unfortunately , his friend cries off and Peter is not seen again . His fiance , Jane , is concerned that the police are n't taking his disappearance seriously and , together with one of the missing man 's friends , pays a visit to the cafe . It is n't a particularly busy night : the place is half empty , with only themselves , " a dozen burly men of the navvy class , and maybe half as many women of the type politely known as ' 