Charles Burchill Lynch , LL.D , O.C. ( 3 December 1919 – 21 July 1994 ) was a Canadian journalist and author . Born in Cambridge , Massachusetts , to Canadian parents , he moved with his parents to Saint John , New Brunswick when he was two weeks old . In 1936 , he started his career in journalism with the Saint John Citizen and then moved on to the Saint John Telegraph - Journal followed by the Canadian Press in Halifax , Nova Scotia . Lynch was appointed Vancouver bureau chief of the British United Press in 1940 . The following year , he was transferred to Toronto to assume the position of divisional manager . In 1943 , Lynch joined Reuters News Agency as a World War II correspondent . He was one of a small handfull of Canadian reporters to accompany troops ashore on D - Day . Others included veteran correspondent Matthew Halton of the CBC , Ross Munro and William Stewart of the Canadian Press , Ralph Allen of the Globe and Mail and Marcel Ouimet for Radio - Canada , the CBC 's French - language service . Following the War , Lynch covered the first four months of the Nuremberg War Crimes Trials for Reuters . He then moved with his family to Rio de Janeiro , Brazil to become Reuters ' chief South American correspondent . Following this , he became the news agency 's chief Canadian correspondent and , finally , New York City Editor before leaving the news service in 1956 to become the CBC 's United Nations correspondent . Lynch moved back to Canada in 1958 to assume the role of Ottawa Bureau Chief of Southam News . Lynch thrived as a journalist in Ottawa and by 1960 he was Chief of Southam . During his time with Southam , Lynch made a historic two - month trip to communist China in April and May , 1965 . As a working journalist , Lynch sent home dispatches vividly describing his impressions of the country 's politics and people under Chairman Mao Zedong . Lynch 's uncensored dispatches appeared in Southam papers after making the voyage home by airmail . The trip is notable because of the fact that it was sanctioned by the Chinese government - almost unheard of for a journalist at the time - and the fact that it chronicles life in China from a Western perspective less than a year before the start of the Cultural Revolution . Lynch 's dispatches were ultimately edited and compiled into what became the journalist 's first book : China , One Fourth of the World , which became a Canadian best - seller . The book is now out of print . In 1977 , he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada " for the vitality , insight and integrity he has shown during his forty years of reporting the news " . In 1981 he was inducted into the Canadian News Hall of Fame . He was awarded an honorary doctorate of laws from Mount Allison University . In 1984 , he retired and became a freelance writer . In 1998 , the National Press Club of Canada established the Charles Lynch Award in his honour . The award is given out annually in recognition of a Canadian journalist 's outstanding coverage of national issues . Lynch was the father of Andrew Lynch , a notable publisher and journalist in the city of Victoria , British Columbia . 