For other uses , see Dickens ( disambiguation ) . Charles John Huffam Dickens FRSA ( 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870 ) , pen - name " Boz " , was the foremost English novelist of the Victorian era , as well as a vigorous social campaigner . Considered one of the English language 's greatest writers , he was acclaimed for his rich storytelling and memorable characters , and achieved massive worldwide popularity in his lifetime . Later critics , beginning with George Gissing and G. K. Chesterton , championed his mastery of prose , his endless invention of memorable characters and his powerful social sensibilities . Yet writers such as George Henry Lewes , Henry James , and Virginia Woolf fault his work for sentimentality , implausible occurrence and grotesque characters . The popularity of Dickens 's novels and short stories has meant that none have ever gone out of print . Dickens wrote serialised novels , which was the usual format for fiction at the time , and each new part of his stories was eagerly anticipated by the reading public . Charles Dickens was born in Landport , Portsmouth , Hampshire , the second of eight children to John Dickens ( 1786–1851 ) , a clerk in the Navy Pay Office at Portsmouth , and his wife Elizabeth Dickens ( née Barrow , 1789–1863 ) on February 7 1812 . When he was five , the family moved to Chatham , Kent . When he was ten , the family relocated to 16 Bayham Street , Camden Town in London . Although his early years seem to have been an idyllic time , he thought himself then as a " very small and not - over - particularly - taken - care - of boy " . He spent his time outdoors , reading voraciously with a particular fondness for the picaresque novels of Tobias Smollett and Henry Fielding . He talked later in life of his extremely poignant memories of childhood and his continuing photographic memory of people and events that helped bring his fiction to life . His family was moderately wealthy , and he received some education at the private William Giles 's school in Chatham . However , this time of prosperity came to an abrupt end when his father , after spending too much money entertaining and retaining his social position , was imprisoned at Marshalsea debtors ' prison . A 12 - year - old Dickens began working 10 hour days in a Warren 's boot - blacking factory , located near the present Charing Cross railway station . He earned six shillings a week pasting labels on the jars of thick polish . This money paid for his lodging in Camden Town and helped support his family . After a few months his family was able to leave Marshalsea but their financial situation did not improve until later , partly due to money inherited from his father 's family . His mother did not immediately remove Charles from the boot - blacking factory , which was owned by a relation of hers . Dickens never forgave his mother for this , and resentment of his situation and the conditions under which working - class people lived became major themes of his works . As Dickens wrote in David Copperfield , judged to be his most clearly autobiographical novel , " I had no advice , no counsel , no encouragement , no consolation , no assistance , no support , of any kind , from anyone , 