Charles Edward Gordone ( 12 October 1925 - 16 November 1995 ) was a playwright , actor , director , and educator . The first African American to win a Pulitzer Prize for Drama , Gordone devoted much of his professional life to the pursuit of multi - racial American theater and racial unity . With a racial heritage of black , Native American , and white , Gordone said of himself that he descended from " three races and five nationalities . Just call me a North American mestizo. " . He was born in Cleveland , Ohio , to Charles Fleming and Camille Morgan Fleming . Gordone grew up in Elkhart , Indiana with his brothers Jack and Stanley and his sister Shirley . At the age of five , Camille Fleming remarried William L. Gordon and later had Gordone 's sister Leah Geraldine . Gordone attended UCLA , Los Angeles City College , California State University in Los Angeles and later , New York University and Columbia University . After a tour in the U.S. Air Force , Gordone moved to New York City where he worked waiting tables and acting . After performing in numerous on and off Broadway shows , Gordone won an Obie Award in 1953 for his role in an all - black production of Of Mice and Men . Throughout the 1950 's and 1960 's , Gordone continued acting , started directing and co - founded both the Committee for the Employment of Negro Performers and the Vantage Theater in Queens . Her performed in Jean Genet 's The Blacks , 1961 - 1966 , along with James Earl Jones , Maya Angelou , Cicely Tyson , and many other Black actors who went on to change Hollywood . He said that acting as the valet in the play changed his life , and that this was when he began to write No Place to Be Somebody . It was during his employment as a bartender in Greenwich Village that Gordone found inspiration for his first play No Place To Be Somebody which won the 1970 Pulitzer Prize ( a first for both an African American playwright and an off - Broadway play ) . Written over 7 years , the play explored racial tensions in a Civil Rights - era story about a black bartender who tries to outsmart a white mobster syndicate . In his final speech , in June 1995 , delivered at the Museum of the American West in Los Angeles , Gordone described the play as being " about country folk who had migrated to the big city , seeking the urban myth of success , only to find disappointment , despair , and death. " . The play had three national touring companies from 1970 to 1977 , which he directed . From 1978 to 1980 , Gordone returned to his native Midwest and worked in the theater and college community of St. Louis . He also began work on a stage Western . In 1981 , Gordone moved back to California , where he met his future wife Susan Kouyomjian in Berkeley . After working together for three years at her multiracial theater , American Stage , Gordone returned to New York City to resume work on his stage Western entitled Roan Brown & Cherry . Soon after , Susan joined him in Harlem . After relocating to Taos , New Mexico , in 1987 for a fellowship at the D.H. Lawrence Ranch ( where they lived in the cabin once occupied by D. 