Cherie Priest ( born 30 July 1975 ) is an American novelist who best known for her debut novel Four and Twenty Blackbirds , which was published in 2003 . In addition to her novels Priest publishes two online blogs : one personal , one professional , and is at the head of the growing presence of authors online , being in contact with many others via their blogs . It is partially due to this online " networking " that her first novel was such a cult success , having been pushed by many authors to their readers . Priest is a Florida native , born in 1975 . In 2002 she graduated from the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga with an M.A. in Rhetoric / Professional writing , and a B.A. from Southern Adventist University in Collegedale , TN . She lives , with her husband , in Seattle , Washington . Priest 's published writing style thus far falls into the Southern Gothic genre as well as the Horror genre . She has also written several short stories , most of which can be categorized as Horror or Science fiction . The 2005 edition of her book Four and Twenty Blackbirds , represents an example of the emerging genre of blog fiction , because a substantial part of the work was serialized and promoted on her blog at LiveJournal . It was through this serialization that she obtained a large amount of interest in her work from both fans and industry professionals . It is common for Priest to post teasers of work in progress , or whole chapters of finished work , on her blog to promote her work . In 2003 her first novel Four & Twenty Blackbirds was published by Marietta Publishing . This first edition featured a short story entitled Horror at Snodgrass Hill , which the author says was added after layout changes to the first edition required more text . After signing a three book deal with Tor Books , in October of 2005 the novel was re - released in a revised and expanded edition by Tor ; and a second novel , the sequel Wings to the Kingdom , is scheduled to arrive in October of 2006 . A third novel Not Flesh Nor Feathers will complete the trilogy in ' 07 . She has sold two other novels to Tor that are separate to her initial three book contract : an urban fantasy called Fathom and a " trashy vampire novel " , Awake Into Darkness . A " mosaic novel " for Subterranean Press is soon to be released . Dreadful Skin will be Priest 's first hardcover , in a limited edition ( 1500 copies ) hardcover , signed by the author . It will feature eight full - page black - and - white illustrations by Mark Geyer ( The Green Mile ) . Priest has mentioned that she has also started work on young adult project called The Ado Ward , but details on this project are minimal and nothing more has been heard from Priest herself . The three books she initially sold to Tor Books , including Four & Twenty Blackbirds compose what she and her fans call The Eden Moore Trilogy , although there is not a clearly defined trilogy story arc , after the lead character of the novels . Eden is a psychic who possesses various abilities , chief amongst them the ability to see , and communicate with , ghosts . The first novel deals with her understanding 