1 - 800 CONTACTS ( NASDAQ : CTAC ) is a company based in Draper , Utah that sells most popular brands of contact lenses , including Johnson & Johnson Vision Care , CIBA Vision , Bausch & Lomb and CooperVision . The company 's net sales in the 2005 fiscal year were $237,950,000 , up from $211,678,000 in 2004 and $187,303,000 in 2003 . 1 - 800 contacts sued WhenU over pop - up advertisments . In the suit against WhenU , which also named Vision Direct as a co - defendant , 1 - 800 Contacts alleged that the advertisements provided by WhenU , which advertised competitors of 1 - 800 Contacts ( such as Vision Direct ) when people viewed the company 's web site , as " inherently deceptive " and one that " misleads users into falsely believing the pop - up advertisements supplied by WhenU.com are in actuality advertisements authorized by and originating with the underlying Web site " . In December 2003 Judge Deborah Batts of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York granted a preliminary injunction , barring WhenU from delivering the advertisements to some web surfers , on the grounds that it constituted trademark infringement violating the Lanham Act . However , WhenU appealed , and the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held that WhenU 's actions did not amount to the " use " that the Lanham Act requires in order to constitute trademark infringement . The appeal court reversed the preliminary injunction and ordered the dismissal of all claims made by 1 - 800 Contacts that were based upon trademark infringement , leaving the claims based upon unfair competition and copyright infringement . The District court had already found that 1 - 800 Contacts was unlikely to prevail in its copyright infringement claims , finding that " the conduct neither violated plaintiff 's right to display its copyrighted website , nor its right to create derivative works therefrom " . The Electronic Frontier Foundation criticised the case , stating that it was " not to help fight off adware and spyware " but was rather intended to allow companies " to gain control over desktop " , where the legal principles being employed " would create a precedent that would enable trademark owners to dictate what could be open on your desktop when you visit their websites " . At the time of the appeal it filed an amicus curiae brief urging the Appeals Court to limit the reach of the " initial interest confusion " doctrine that had been applied by the District Court . Electronic Frontier Foundation . Michelle Boyles ( 2001 - 04 - 15 ) . 