Twentieth ( 20th ) Century Fox Film Corporation ( known from 1935 to 1985 as Twentieth Century - Fox Film Corporation ) is one of the major American film studios . Located in the Century City area of Los Angeles , California , USA , just west of Beverly Hills , the studio is a subsidiary of News Corporation , the media conglomerate controlled by Rupert Murdoch . It has been suggested that Fox Film be merged into this article or section . Fox Plaza , Century City headquarters . The company is the result of a 1935 merger of two entities , Fox Film Corporation founded by William Fox in 1915 , and Twentieth Century Pictures , begun in 1933 by Darryl F. Zanuck , Joseph Schenck , Raymond Griffith and William Goetz. William Fox , a pioneer in creating the theater " chain " , began producing films in 1914 . In 1917 he introduced Theda Bara , one of the most popular screen actresses of the time . Always more of an entrepreneur than a showman , Fox concentrated on acquiring and building theaters ; pictures were secondary . With the introduction of sound Fox acquired the rights to a German sound - on - film process which he dubbed " Movietone " and in 1926 began offering films with a music - and - effects track . The following year he began the weekly " Fox Movietone News " feature , which ran until 1963 . The growing company needed space , and in 1926 Fox acquired three - hundred acres in the open country west of Beverly Hills and built " Movietone City " , the best - equipped studio of its time . When rival Marcus Loew died in 1927 , Fox offered to buy the Loew family 's holdings ; Loew 's Inc. controlled more than two - hundred theaters as well as the MGM studio ( whose films are currently distributed internationally by Fox - - see below ) . When the family agreed to the sale , the merger of Fox and Loew 's Inc. was announced in 1929 . But MGM studio - boss Louis B. Mayer , not included in the deal , fought back ; using political connections , he called on the Justice Department 's anti - trust unit to block the merger . Fate favoured Mayer ; Fox was badly injured in a car crash and by the time he recovered the 1929 stock market crash had taken most of his fortune , putting an end to the Loew 's merger . Over - extended and close to bankruptcy , Fox was stripped of his empire and even ended up in jail . Fox Film , with more than five - hundred theatres , was placed in receivership ; a bank - mandated reorganisation propped the company up for a time , but it was clear a merger was the only way Fox Film could survive . It has been suggested that Twentieth Century Pictures be merged into this article or section . At Warner Bros. , production head Darryl Zanuck feuded with studio chief Jack Warner over his salary . When Zanuck asked for his pay to be restored to pre - Depression levels , Warner refused , and he resigned . Days later he announced the formation of a new company Twentieth Century Pictures , in partnership with Joseph Schenck , president of United Artists . Schenck was president and CEO , while Zanuck was head of the studio . Begun in mid - 