2Advanced Studios , LLC is an interactive design agency that creates rich media solutions for clients such as Ford Motor Company , Nintendo of America , Motorola , and O'Neill ( brand ) . 2Advanced 's services include design , development , rich media , video , 3D design , audio , identity , promotion and print . As of 2007 , the company employs 25 people working at either the main campus in Aliso Viejo , California or their latest subsidiary in Tokyo , Japan . In 2006 , the company 's website , V.3 " Expansions " , was named the Most Influential Flash Site of the Decadereflecting the studio 's prominent role and influence within interactive design . 2Advanced Studios was founded in 1999 by Co - Founders Eric Jordan , Tony Novak and John Carroll . The division offered web hosting services from its on - site 6,750 sq. foot data center . In 2006 , 2Advanced Studios Japan was launched with the opening of a Tokyo - based office . Although there is no official archive of 2Advanced V.1 , the 2A archive holds V2 : Evolutions of Design Technology . Featuring animation created using then Macromedia Flash 5 , Macromedia FreeHand , and Swift3D . The site was never fully stocked with experimental items , wallpapers , or other downloads featured in future 2A websites . Expansions was the first to include the 2A circle logo as well as the current company font . The website was primarily using Macromedia Flash 5 featuring a blue " expanding " theme with animated clouds . Included with this website were desktop wallpapers , a Winamp skin , t - shirts , and a demo reel . In addition , their portfolio , experimental , and accolades sections all received much more content than included with V2 . In 2006 Adobe and the Favourite Website Awards ( FWA ) hosted a series of community polls to name the " Most Influential Flash Site of the Decade " in honor of Flash 's tenth anniversary . Almost 200,000 votes were cast and Expansions received the coveted title of The Most Influential Flash Site of the Decade . Prophecy took advantage of newer technologies allowing enhanced 3D graphics and movements . The website featured a futuristic red space theme , including renders of water and ships . The transitions between site sections took advantage of the many features that were included in Macromedia Flash MX. V4 included a demo reel , enhanced portfolio / experimental sections , and a larger online store . Attractor became public on 2006 - 06 - 01 . In late May , 2006 the V.4 website was gradually altered , giving the appearance of being damaged or destroyed , with various components ceasing to function and altered visuals and animations depicting destroyed equipment , fires and torn metal . This was generally accepted as a sign to most that a new site was on the way . On 2006 - 06 - 01 the company released 2Advanced V.5 , codenamed ' Attractor ' . Newer developments include an emphasis on highly detailed centerpieces , digital matte paintings created by CCO Erick Jordan ; a new proprietary content management system ; and various innovative techniques for increased Flash usability , such as the ability to bookmark and link to specific sections within a 100 % Flash site and an XML data cache feature that optimizes the web site performance for high traffic . This article does not cite any references or sources . Please help 