37signals is a privately held influential web application company based in Chicago . The firm was co - founded in 1999 by CEO Jason Fried and partners as a web design company with a particular focus on usability , simplicity , and clarity in design and writing . 37signals also produces a popular blog , Signal vs. Noise . The company is named for the 37 radio telescope signals identified by astronomer Paul Horowitz as potential messages from extraterrestrial intelligence . 37signals designed Meetup.com and redesigned sites for customers including Panera Bread and Shopping.com . In 2000 , they created the eNormicom website , a satire of the dot - com era . In 2003 , 37signals launched a pioneering web design service called 37express , where for a set fee ( $2500 ) they would redesign one page on a website in one week . Also in 2003 , 37signals began work on a web application for project management named Basecamp , originally intended for internal use , that took the company in a new direction . Basecamp has since been followed by five other web applications . See the products section below for more details . By mid - 2005 the company had moved away from consulting work to focus exclusively on its web applications . Each application has a free limited - feature version , and most have monthly subscription levels with more features . The Ruby on Rails web application framework was extracted from the work on Basecamp and released as open source . On July 20 , 2006 the company announced that Jeff Bezos had acquired a minority stake through his personal investment company , Bezos Expeditions . 37signals promotes an internally - developed Agile software development methodology and philosophy called " Getting Real " . Getting Real eschews formal programming methodology and focuses on creating useful alpha software with small teams , then iterating to a simple useful application based , in part , on real - world customer feedback . The company initially expanded without venture capital and advocated the " self - funded startup " approach , although it has since taken investment from Jeff Bezos . 37signals has held seminars about their methods in Chicago and other U.S. cities . The company has published a book on the philosophy " Getting Real " , taking its title from the company 's development philosophy . The company uses Apple computers exclusively and has said it would " never hire someone who does n't use a Mac " . The company 's web log , Signal vs. Noise , was launched in 1999 and is self - described as featuring " entrepreneurship , design , experience , simplicity , constraints , pop culture , our products , products we like , and more. " . It is regularly updated by the company 's employees and allows commenting by readers . The company often uses the blog to communicate with users regarding new products , features , and their design philosophy Getting Real . Everything since February 2005 is archived , and the blog is powered by a custom - built blogging tool , although it formerly used Movable Type . The content posted is often critical and controversial , and often hotly debated in the comments . The blog is written in a casual style , and sometimes contains profanity . Revenue from the blog is gained through three doses of advertising : small image ads via The Deck , a small advertising network , and a 37signals Job Board and Gig Board 