3 is a brand used for eight mobile telecommunications networks in Europe , Asia and Australia . Hutchison Whampoa holds a direct or indirect , majority or minority interest in all of them . All 3 - branded networks emphasize their offering of " mobile multimedia " and provide 3G technology ( WCDMA , some also run 2G networks . 3 is present in Australia , Austria , Denmark , Hong Kong , Indonesia , Ireland , Italy , Sweden , and the United Kingdom . Hutchison Whampoa also holds a 3G - license in Norway . As of March 2007 , registered 3 customers worldwide numbered some 14 million , 21 percent of which were inactive . 3 aggressively markets new handsets and services and launches new products regularly , lately focussing on Mobile TV related services . As with other 3G networks around the world , 3 allows video calling and fast internet access from most of its handsets . Like other GPRS content ( Vodafone Live , T - Zones , O₂ Active ) 3 's portal is ' free to browse ' for some content in most 3 countries including UK and Austria ; the user pays a fixed price for each video or application downloaded . Besides that , 3 UK and also 3 Ireland initially made the decision to block direct Internet access from handsets , while 3 Austria allowed access to the internet . The result of this decision was that , in the UK , unlike the UK 's other leading networks , arbitrary web and email servers could not be accessed from a handset on their network . Instead , they provided their own web - based content through the handset 's online portal , offering popular video and text content , ranging from video news bulletins to online dating systems . This system became known , somewhat unaffectionately , as the " walled garden " by many of 3 UK 's power users , frustrated at not being able to access the sites they wanted . This strict policy in the UK was relaxed in September 2005 , and customers were permitted restricted Internet access to a limited selection of third - party websites ; those that 3 tested and deemed suitable and usable . It was also possible for customers to submit sites for consideration . Customers who required full Internet access , or who wanted to use their handsets as a modem , were able to purchase fixed amounts of data transfer for a fee . In the latter half of 2006 , 3 UK decided to relax their policy on Internet access further by providing 30 MB web access to new customers free of charge . It 's worth noting that this only allows access to sites using port 80 , thus access to external email accounts , such as POP3 and IMAP4 mailboxes , and access to services which do n't use port 80 , is not allowed with the inclusive data . 3 's UK Internet access only includes handset browsing and modem use is charged separately . In Australia , since the launch of the network , 3 has configured its customers ' handsets with two data access modes ( APNs ) , " 3Services " and " 3NetAccess " . Through a change in the settings on the handset , the wider Internet is available to browse . Customers on most tariffs pay AUD$4 per megabyte . A new add - on to regular plans ( not pre - paid ) is now 