3Com ( NASDAQ : COMS ) is a manufacturer best known for its computer network infrastructure products . The company was co - founded in 1979 by Robert Metcalfe and is headquartered in Marlborough , Massachusetts . The name 3Com comes from the company 's focus on " Computers , Communication and Compatibility " . Robert Metcalfe invented Ethernet at Xerox PARC , and subsequently co - founded 3Com in 1979 . 3Com began making Ethernet adaptor cards for many early 1980s computer systems , including the LSI - 11 , IBM PC , and VAX - 11 . In the mid - 1980s , 3Com would brand their Ethernet technology as EtherSeries , while introducing a range of software and PC - based equipment to provide shared services over a LAN using XNS protocols . These protocols were branded EtherShare ( for file sharing ) , EtherPrint ( for printing ) , EtherMail ( for email ) , and Ether - 3270 ( for IBM host emulation ) . 3 + Share file and printer sharing . 3 + Remote for routing XNS over a PC serial port . NetConnect for routing XNS between Ethernets . 3Server , a server - grade PC for running 3 + services . 3Station , a diskless workstation . 3 + Open file and printer sharing ( based on Microsoft 's LAN Manager ) . Etherterm terminal emulation . Etherprobe LAN analysis software . DynamicAccess software products for Ethernet load balancing , response time and RMON II distributed monitoring . 3Com 's expansion beyond its original base of PC and thin Ethernet products began in 1987 when it merged with Bridge Communications . This provided a range of equipment based on Motorola 68000 processors and using XNS protocols compatibly with 3Com 's Etherterm PC software . NCS / 1 network control software running on a Sun2 . 3Com came close to being acquired by UNIX workstation company , Convergent Technologies , abandoning the pact just two days before a vote was scheduled in March 1986 . Axon and OnStream Networks in 1996 . They merged with U.S. Robotics in 1997 , which made Dial - up access and included Palm , Inc.The modem business was rapidly shrinking . 3Com attempted to enter the DSL business , but was not successful . In August 1998 , Bruce Claflin was named COO.In March 2000 , with stiff competition with Cisco , 3Com exited the high - end router business , upsetting its larger corporate customers . In the server Network interface card business , the more lucrative part of the NIC business , 3Com remained second in market share , after Intel . 3Com never managed to beat Intel with its own products or even with joint ventures with Broadcom . It started developing Gigabit Ethernet cards in - house but later scrapped the plans . Later , it formed a joint venture with Broadcom , where Broadcom would develop the main ASIC component and the NIC would be 3Com branded . The venture fell apart some time later and 3Com no longer had the talent to pursue Gigabit Ethernet on its own . In July 2000 , 3Com spun - off Palm as an independent company . After the IPO , 3Com still owned 80 % of Palm but 3Com 's market cap was smaller than Palm 's . U.S. Robotics was also spun out again as a separate company at this time . In 1999 3Com acquired NBX , a Boston company with an Ethernet - based phone system for small and medium 