3D Realms ( legal name Apogee Software , Ltd. ) is the name of a computer game publisher and developer based in Garland , Texas , established in 1987 . It is best known for popularizing the shareware distribution model and as the creator of franchises on the PC such as Duke Nukem , and also the publisher of other franchises such as Commander Keen and Wolfenstein 3D . The name 3D Realms was initially created as a branding label in July 1994 for use by Apogee which would be dedicated to just 3D games ( as Apogee was then known for several styles of games ) . However , shortly after this , 3D games started to dominate the industry , and Apogee decided to direct their focus on this style of game , and as such , the Apogee name was eventually abandoned as a public marketing name in late 1996 . While the company is now known as ' 3D Realms ' , the legal name of the company is still Apogee Software , Ltd . Apogee started in 1987 with the release of Scott Miller 's Kingdom of Kroz , which used crude extended ASCII characters as graphics . Nevertheless , the game sold quite well and Apogee was born . In 1991 George Broussard joined the company as co - owner , bringing with him several games of his that were previously released under the name Micro F / X. Miller and Broussard run the company to this day . Apogee published games by other developers in addition to its own in - house titles . One of these developers , id Software , contributed to Apogee 's success with games such as Commander Keen and Wolfenstein 3D , but later severed their ties with Apogee with their release of Doom in 1993 ( although in its earliest stages , Doom was still an Apogee title ) . Unlike traditional larger publishers that sold games in retail outlets , Apogee ( like many independent developers ) sold their products using the shareware method , depending mostly on BBSs , such as Software Creations ' , for distribution of their software . Initial Apogee games ( Beyond the Titanic and Supernova ) were distributed as traditional shareware ; that is , giving away the full game for free , and asking the customer to pay for it if he / she liked it . Upon registering , the customer would be able to receive support and help for the game . However , this marketing model did not prove to be profitable enough , so Apogee decided to implement a variation on the shareware model . Starting with Kingdom of Kroz , Apogee would provide the first installment of a game composed of several episodes ( usually three ) for free ( as shareware ) , and sell the remaining installments by mail order . Registering the first episode would also enable the customer to receive support for that game , as well as giving them cheat codes for it . This method became known as the Apogee Model . Initially , each episode of a game was sold separately , with discounts for buying all the episodes together . Later games did not offer the option to buy a specific episode ; the customer could play the shareware version ( first episode ) for free , and buy the full registered version ( all episodes ) if they liked the game . This model has some similarities with the episodic model currently used by some 