3M Company ( NYSE : MMM ; formerly Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company until 2002 ) is an American corporation with a worldwide presence . It produces over 55,000 products , including : adhesives , abrasives , laminates , passive fire protection , dental products , electrical materials , electronic circuits , optical films , and supply chain management software . Starting out on the North Shore of Lake Superior at Two Harbors , Minnesota in 1902 , the company moved to Duluth , Minnesota , and moved to its current headquarters in Maplewood ( a St. Paul suburb ) in 1906 . The company began by mining stone from quarries for use in grinding wheels . Struggling with quality and marketing of its products , top management supported its workers to innovate and develop new products , which eventually would develop into its core business . Twelve years after being founded , 3M was able to develop its first exclusive product : 3M Three - M - ite cloth . Other innovations around this time by 3M included the waterproof sandpaper and the masking tape . By 1929 3M made its first moves in to an international expansion by forming “Durex” in order to conduct business in Europe . This same year , the company’s stocks were first traded over the counter and in 1946 the stocks were listed on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) . The company was founded by Henry S. Bryan , Dr. J. Danley Budd , Harmon Cable , William A. McGonagle , and John Dwan , who incorporated 3M on the North Shore of Lake Superior at Two Harbors , Minnesota in 1902 . Their original plan was to sell the valuable mineral corundum to manufacturers in the East , who wanted corundum for the grinding wheels they used to finish their products . After selling only one load , on 13 June 1902 the five men walked into the Two Harbors office of company secretary John Dwan—now part of the 3M Museum . They signed the papers making Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing a corporation . But Dwan and his associates were not selling what they thought they were selling : the mineral was anorthosite , and it was worthless . After failing to make sandpaper with the anorthosite , they decided to import minerals like Spanish garnet , and sandpaper sales grew strong . Then in 1914 , customers started to complain that the garnet was falling off the paper . They found that as the stones had travelled across the rough Atlantic Ocean with olive oil , the oil had penetrated the stones . Unable to take the loss of selling expensive inventory , the company found that the olive oil would come out if the garnet was washed and then dried . The company 's early misadventures taught 3M employees that " ingenuity and perseverance can overcome even potentially ruinous mistakes. " . In 1916 , company general manager William L. McKnight applied the same measured scientific methods to production that he had used to save the company from bankruptcy and bought the company 's first lab for $500 . From then on , science would be 3M 's guide . The company 's early innovations include waterproof sandpaper 1920s ) and masking tape ( 1925 ) , as well as cellophane " Scotch Tape " and sound deadening materials for metal - frame cars in the years that followed . 3M 's corporate image is built on its innovative and unique products ; up to 25 % 