4 Digital Group is a consortium that has bid for the second national DAB multiplex , advertised by Ofcom in December 2006 . The consortium , led by Channel 4 Radio , is a combination of the existing commercial radio operators and brands new to radio . 4 Digital Group wants to put radio at the heart of the digital revolution , the consortium aims to do for digital radio in the United Kingdom what Freeview has done for digital television - boost the take - up . 10 new national services - in both speech and music . E4 Radio will be a contemporary music and entertainment service targeted at 15 to 29 - year - olds delivered in E4 's style with the latest music , entertainment and comedy , and will encourage a new generation of music and comedy talent . Building on the popularity of the E4 television channel , E4 Radio will have new talent , ideas and sounds and engage actively with listeners . Channel 4 Radio will be a contemporary speech station with public service values infusing a blend of lively debate and entertainment . It will be driven by intelligent , informed and often provocative opinion and conversation . News and current affairs will be at the heart of Channel 4 Radio . It will primarily target 30 to 54 - year - olds and will offer a mix of programming from current affairs and news to comedy , drama , documentary and lifestyle , all delivered with intelligence , irreverence and humour . Pure4 will be a knowledgeable radio station for music lovers , and from the music and culture . A completely distinctive music mix not heard anywhere else on commercial radio . As well as playing music , it will explore the stories , set the context and influences . The audience likes contemporary music and new music in all genres . Pure4 is a place where the audience can find out about the arts , film , books and exhibitions - the music has to offer with modern contemporary culture . Talk Radio will mix intelligent , entertaining and opinionated presentation with lively debate and phone - ins . Operated by UTV , it will break the mould of national news and current affairs radio by having a more interactive and compelling talkback element . Talk Radio 's free - flowing agenda will be dictated by the unfolding issues of the day . From politics to the police , from immigration to Iran , if it 's in the news Talk Radio will be talking about it . Emap 's proposed station , Closer , will be a music station targeting women aged 30 + with a broad range of contemporary and classic hits and topical chat on issues such as : health , diet , wellbeing , fashion and relationships , using a mix of both celebrity and listener real - life experiences . Sky News Radio , a joint venture between Sky and Chrysalis Radio , will be a 24 - hour rolling news service , providing up - to - the minute news and analysis from Britain and around the world . It will bring to national radio the reputation for quality and speed that viewers and listeners have come to expect from Sky 's pioneering and award - winning 24 - hour television news service , and from Chrysalis Radio 's Sony award winning radio news operation which feeds its London stations LBC 97.3FM and LBC News 1152AM . Based on the successful London 