4Kids Entertainment ( NYSE : KDE ) ( commonly known as 4Kids ) is an American film and television production company specializing in the acquisition , production and licensing of children 's entertainment around the world . The company is most well - known for its range of television licenses , which includes shows from Japan and other countries around the world . Some examples of popular merchandising by 4Kids includes the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Sonic the Hedgehog media franchises . 3.1 4Sight Licensing Solutions Inc . 4Kids Entertainment licenses , develops , and distributes a wide variety of media products , ranging from video games and television programs to toy lines featuring the British Royal Air Force . The following TV programs are on hiatus , and their futures are unknown . Kirby : Right Back At Ya ! . 4Kids Entertainment introduced 4Kids TV , then called the FoxBox on September 14 , 2002 after Fox Kids was dissolved following the purchase of Fox Family Worldwide by Disney . The block was re - branded 4Kids TV in January 2005 . 4Kids Entertainment is wholly responsible for the content of the block and collects all advertising revenues from it - making it one of the main outlets in the United States for 4Kids licenses and properties . Many of the licenses distributed by 4Kids Entertainment , and presented on 4Kids TV are managed by 4Kids Productions , which is a wholly owned subsidiary of 4Kids Entertainment . First launched in 1992 , 4Kids Productions deals primarily with television , film , home video , and music licenses , and currently manages the programming for 4KidsTV . 4Sight Licensing Solutions Inc . In April 19 , 2006 , 4Kids had announced a new subsidiary entitled 4Sight Licensing Solutions Inc . According to 4Kids , 4Sight will license and market brands aimed at adults , teenagers and pre - teens . None of 4Kids 's current anime properties will be moved to 4Sight . On January 17 , 2006 , 4Kids and Microsoft signed a deal to license children 's video games exclusively for the Xbox 360 gaming system , in an effort to put more child - oriented games on the system , whose gaming library is currently dominated by games targeted toward the 13 - and - up market . One of the first titles announced was Viva Piñata which would be developed by Rare Ltd . The management of 4Kids Entertainment has stated that they seek to " westernize anime so that children in English - speaking countries will understand it . . . " , judging that such localization is necessary in order to for their titles to be marketable . The only money that can be made that helps pay for the acquisition is obviously whether or not we're able to outfit it for the masses . And fitting it for the masses requires editing . And if we did n't do that , it'd be very difficult for us to afford to bring it in , just to release it to the anime fan who would be looking for the uncut version . Comparison of the same scene in One Piece . Original Japanese version ( top ) and 4Kids edit of blackface . Changing dialog , sound effects , music , and exchanging clips of episodes in order to satisfy localized plot outlines . Skipping , or removing , entire episodes from a license 's release . Removing items , images , or incidents that may be deemed too violent or 