A&B Sound is a Canadian home electronics retailer based in Richmond , British Columbia . The flagship store is located in downtown Vancouver , with a total of 16 stores in western Canada . A&B Sound has a long - held reputation for offering low prices and a large selection of music titles . A&B Sound was founded by Fred Steiner in 1959 . The first store was located in downtown Vancouver , and in 1965 it moved to its current location at 556 Seymour Street . The store initially sold televisions , stereos and radio equipment , adding music sales later that same year . A second store opened in 1977 in Victoria , British Columbia in a building that had previously served as that city 's first hospital , and later as a brothel . In 1980 , the Vancouver location expanded to three floors , followed in 1981 by the construction of a new store on Hastings Street , near the border of Burnaby . A fourth location opened in 1984 on South West Marine Drive in Vancouver . Fred Steiner retired in 1987 , and his son Nick became president of A&B Sound . New stores subsequently opened in Surrey ( 1987 ) , Burnaby 's Metrotown area ( 1988 ) , and Nanaimo ( 1990 ) . Fred Steiner passed away in 1991 , the same year that the East Hastings location moved into a larger property at the corner of Hastings Street and the Trans Canada Highway , across from Playland . The following year , an eighth store opened in Kelowna . In 1993 , A&B Sound moved into the Alberta market , opening locations in Calgary and Edmonton in 1993 , followed by south Edmonton ( 1994 ) , a second Calgary location ( 1995 ) , Lethbridge ( 1996 ) , and Red Deer and a third Calgary outlet in 1997 . Also in 1995 , a store was opened in Abbotsford , British Columbia . Expansion continued throughout Western Canada , with new stores in Regina and Saskatoon , Saskatchewan ( 1999 ) and Winnipeg , Manitoba ( 2000 ) . In 2001 , Nick Steiner stepped aside as President , retaining his role as Chairman , and long - time CEO Tim Howley became President and CEO . For years , A&B Sound maintained a reputation in the Western Canadian music market for having the lowest prices and best selection on records , cassettes , and later CDs . Often , the chain would out - price other major retailers , including A & A Records and Tapes , as well as Toronto - based Sam the Record Man , which never managed to penetrate the Vancouver market with the same success as it did in eastern Canada . A downtown Vancouver location of Sam The Record Man was located next door to A&B Sound 's Seymour Street location until late in 2000 when it was closed . In a 1993 article in The Georgia Straight newspaper it is noted that A&B Sound 's aggressive pricing policies resulted in Vancouver having the lowest record prices of any Canadian metropolis . These low prices were not only responsible for other chains closing , but may have been one reason for some chains not opening stores in Vancouver , including Tower Records , which had scouted Vancouver as a possible location to expand into Canada . When HMV finally opened stores in the Vancouver area in 1993 , HMV Canada 's then - president Paul Alofs said that breaking into the 