A&W All - American Food is a chain of fast - food restaurants , distinguished by their draft root beer and root beer floats . The aforementioned items are made on the premises from concentrate and served in tall , frosted - glass mugs . It is the oldest fast food franchise company in the United States , serving a typical fast food menu of hamburgers and french fries , as well as hot dogs . A number of them are drive - in restaurants with carhops . The company name was taken from the initials of the two founders , Roy Allen and Frank Wright . The chain is currently owned by Yum ! Brands . Please help ] improve this section ] by expanding it . Further information might be found on the ] or at requests for expansion . A&W began in 1919 in Lodi , California , when Roy Allen took on partnership with Frank Wright to help him with the root beer business he had started in 1919 . They branded their product A&W Root Beer after their last names . Two years later , Allen bought out Wright and began franchising his product . His profits came from a small franchise fee and concentrate sales . There was no set food menu for franchises until 1978 . By 1960 , they had 2000 stores . In 1971 , a beverage division was started , supplying bottled A&W products to grocery stores . The soft drinks sold under this brand are root beer and cream soda , made by Dr Pepper / Seven Up , Inc . In the United States and Southeast Asia , A&W is currently a Yum ! Brands , Inc. company . Most A&W locations that have opened in the U.S. in recent years have been co - branded with Yum ! 's fish and chips chain Long John Silver 's , or with Taco Bell or Kentucky Fried Chicken . In 1989 , A&W made an agreement with Minnesota - based chain Carousel Snack Bars to convert that chain 's 200 locations ( mostly kiosks in shopping malls ) to " A&W Hot Dogs & More " . Some A&W Hot Dogs & More locations are still in operation today . A bomb exploded at an A&W Restaurant in Jakarta , Indonesia in November 2006 . The Canadian chain of A&W restaurants is owned and operated by a separate company . It is called A&W Food Services of Canada Inc. While originally part of the American operation , the Canadian company no longer has any corporate connection to the American chain . The first A&W drive - in restaurant in Canada opened on Portage Avenue in Winnipeg in 1956 . First opened in 1963 , A&W drive - in restaurants were the first fast - food franchise to appear in Japan . Currently , they are found only in Okinawa , the southernmost prefecture of Japan , where it remains very popular . It has become something of a regional favorite among Japanese tourists who visit Okinawa . A&W operates in Australia . Until 2003 , Tasmania did not have any A&W stores . However , a trial run was tried , with A&W being combined with KFC stores , offering both store menus in the one location . The trial ended in late 2004 , with the A&W branches closing down . In March 2005 , A&W opened a joint - branch with Long John Silvers in Kings Park , New South Wales . This restaurant closed in early 