A&W is a Canadian fast food restaurant chain . It was originally part of the American A&W chain , but was sold to and operated separately by Unilever . It no longer has any connection to the American A&W.The chain is now owned and operated by A&W Food Services of Canada Inc. , based in North Vancouver , British Columbia . The first Canadian A&W restaurant opened in Winnipeg , Manitoba in 1956 . The Canadian restaurants were part of the American chain until 1972 when they were sold to Unilever . In 1975 , facing tough competition from the growing Canadian operations of McDonald 's , the company launched what was to have been a temporary advertising campaign starring an orange - clad mascot , The Great Root Bear . The bear and the tuba jingle that accompanied him became a long - running campaign . The mascot was so successful that he was eventually adopted as the mascot by the American A&W chain as well . In the early 1980s , the drive - in style of restaurant was phased out . It was replaced with a modern , pastel - coloured fast food outlet which included healthier options . The last Drive - in style restaurant closed in 1990 , in Langley , British Columbia . In 1995 , there was a management buyout of A&W Food Services of Canada Inc . In the late 1990s , marketing and products began to take on a more retro approach . Former menu items , such as the Burger Family , were re - introduced , and marketing became more targeted toward the baby boomer generation . At the same time , the current restaurant design was introduced . The exterior features bright orange and yellow colours , reminiscent of the 1950s , while the interior is decorated with memorabilia associated with the same period . Existing restaurants were renovated to match the new style . On February 15 , 2002 , the A&W Revenue Royalties Income Fund was listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange . The initial public offering was 8.34 million units at $10 each . The fund owns the A&W trademarks in Canada and licenses them to A&W Food Services of Canada Inc . Revenue is generated by charging a three percent royality on gross sales of each restaurant . There are currently 654 A&W restaurants in Canada . Television advertisements are filmed at the Mission , British Columbia location . In August 2005 , the Mission location became well known across Canada after nine employees won a $14.6 million Lotto 649 jackpot . On the weekend of November 26th and 27th , 2005 residents of Saskatchewan were offered discounts on Mama Burgers and Bacon ' n ' Eggers in honour of the province 's centennial . From June 12th to 25th , 2006 , A&W celebrated 50 years in Canada . Participating A&W locations offer bi - weekly specials . The original drive - in menu in Canada consisted of hotdogs , hamburgers , potato chips , and A&W Root Beer . Fish and chips and Chubby Chicken were added later . The Burger Family , which includes the Papa , Mama , and Baby Burgers , was introduced in 1959 . The Teen Burger was added in 1961 . The menu has undergone many changes over the years such as the removal of Fish and Chips and Chubby Chicken , plus the discontinuation of the Burger Family ( except the Teen Burger ) towards the general hamburger terms . In 1999 , after a 