AAPT is Australia 's 3rd largest land line telecommunications company and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Telecom New Zealand . The company was formed by the division of the communications businesses of Australian Associated Press . In 1992 AAPIS was formed with News Corporation and John Fairfax Holdings as majority shareholders with MCI and Todd Capital also possessing shares in the company . According to AAPT 's website the company began operating as the first significant competitor to Telstra in the long distance voice and data markets in 1991 . The company received a carrier licence on 1 July 1997 and was later listed on the Australian Stock Exchange in November of the same year . In January 1999 Todd Capital sold its entire stake in the company . In 2000 the company was acquired by Telecom New Zealand and delisted from the stock exchange . Today AAPT claims to be one of only three Australian telecommunications providers to own and operate its own national voice and data network . AAPT has positioned itself a virtual network operator in the mobile market utilising the Vodafone Australia . In 2006 CommodiTel , acquired AAPT 's prepaid customer base . AAPT Head Office is based in the Ernst & Young building at 680 George Street , Sydney . AAPT Internet switch and network centre is located in the suburb of RichmondAAPT 's main current call centres are located in Bendigo , Victoria , Robina / Varsity Lakes on the Gold Coast , Queensland , Fortitude Valley , Brisbane and the Head Office building in Sydney.AAPT announced its intention in December 2006 to sell the centres in Bendigo and Robina / Varsity Lakes in favour of a new centralized call centre located in Glebe , Sydney . This business - related article is a stub . You can help by expanding it . This article or section needs sources or references that appear in reliable , third - party publications . Primary sources and sources affiliated with the subject of the article are generally not sufficient for a Wikipedia article . Please include more appropriate citations from reliable sources , or discuss the issue on the talk page . 