Aardman Animations , Ltd. , also known as Aardman Studios , is an Academy Award winning British animation studio based in Bristol , United Kingdom . Aardman is famous for its claymation / stop - motion animation productions , particularly plasticine duo Wallace & Gromit . Aardman was founded as a small backyard project by Peter Lord and David Sproxton in 1976 . Lord and Sproxton wanted to realize their dream of an animated motion picture . Their first big break was providing animated sequences for the children 's art series Vision On ; during this time they created Morph , a simple clay character . Around the same time Lord and Sproxton made their first foray into adult animation with the shorts Down and Out and Confessions of a Foyer Girl , entries in the BBC 's Animated Conversations series , which used real - life conversations as soundtracks . However , these two shorts were not actual Aardman productions . Later , Aardman produced a number of shorts for Channel 4 ; these included the Conversation Pieces series . These five shorts worked in the same area as the two shorts Lord and Sproxton made for Animated Conversations , but were more sophisticated . Lord and Sproxton began hiring more animators at this point ; three of the newcomers made their directorial debut at Aardman with the Lip Synch series . Of the five Lip Synch shorts two were directed by Peter Lord , one by Barry Purves , one by Richard Goleszowski and one by Nick Park . Park 's short , Creature Comforts , was the first Aardman production to win an Oscar . Park also developed the world - famous clay modelled shorts featuring the adventures of Wallace & Gromit , a comical yet buddyful " dreamteam " : Wallace an english gentlemanthat happens to be a naive , green - knitted - tank - top - wearing inventor , and his best pal , the intelligent but silent dog , Gromit . The " cheeselovers“ withstand many adventures such as A Grand Day Out ( 1989 ) , The Wrong Trousers ( 1993 ) and A Close Shave ( 1995 ) . Nothing was gained for ' A Grand Day Out ' , but both ' The Wrong Trousers ' and ' A Close Shave ' won academy awards . In the year 2000 Aardman Studios " let the birds " fly with Chicken Run , an awarded worldwide box - office hit . This movie was Aardman 's first feature film . 2005 and after ten years being on holiday Wallace and Gromit returned very rested and relaxed on the silver screen in Wallace & Gromit : The Curse of the Were - Rabbit and caught the next Academy award for full - length animated film . While Aardman is best known for stop motion , the studio has also dabbled in CGI with productions such as Al Dante , Planet Sketch and Flushed Away . Aardman Features is a feature film division of Aardman Animations . Dreamworks and Aardman signed a 3 - picture deal after the success of Chicken Run . According to Aardman spokesman Arthur Sheriff : " The business model of DreamWorks no longer suits Aardman and vice versa . But the split could n't have been more amicable. " . As of 2nd April 2007 Aardman has signed a three - year deal with Sony Pictures Entertainment . Aardman co - founder Peter Lord remarked " We are all very excited by the potential and have a number 