ABAQUS , Inc. is an engineering simulation software ( CAE ) vendor . Formerly known as Hibbitt , Karlsson & Sorensen , Inc. , ( HKS ) , the company was founded in 1978 by Dr. David Hibbitt , Dr. Bengt Karlsson and Dr. Paul Sorensen , and has its headquarters in Providence , Rhode Island , United States . In October 2005 , Dassault Systèmes acquired ABAQUS , Inc. and announced SIMULIA , the brand encompassing all DS simulation solutions , including ABAQUS and CATIA Analysis applications . SIMULIA makes realistic simulation an integral business practice that improves product performance , reduces the number of physical prototypes required . The ABAQUS suite consists of three core products - ABAQUS / Standard , ABAQUS / Explicit and ABAQUS / CAE . Each of these packages offers additional , optional modules that address specialized capabilities required by some customers . ABAQUS / Standard® provides ABAQUS analysis technology to solve traditional implicit finite element analysis , including static , dynamic , and thermal analyses , all powered with the widest range of contact and nonlinear material options . ABAQUS / Standard also has optional add - on and interface products that address design sensitivity analysis , offshore engineering , and integration with third party software , e.g. , plastic injection molding analysis . ABAQUS / Explicit® provides ABAQUS analysis technology focused on transient dynamics and quasi - static analyses using an explicit time integration , which is appropriate in many applications , such as drop tests , crushing , and manufacturing processes . ABAQUS / CAE® provides a complete modeling and visualization environment for ABAQUS analysis products . With direct access to CAD models , advanced meshing and visualization , and with an exclusive view towards ABAQUS analysis products , ABAQUS / CAE is the modeling environment of choice for many ABAQUS users . This article does not cite any references or sources . Please help ] improve this article ] by adding citations to reliable sources . Unverifiable material may be challenged and removed . 