Abbott Laboratories ( NYSE : ABT ) is a diversified pharmaceuticals and health care company . It has over 60,000 employees and operates in 130 countries . The corporate headquarters are in Abbott Park , Illinois , a neighborhood of North Chicago , Illinois . Abbott Laboratories was founded by Chicago physician Wallace Calvin Abbott in 1888 . In 2003 , Abbott had nearly $20 billion in sales . In 1985 , the company developed the first HIV blood screening test . The company 's drug portfolio includes Humira , a drug for rheumatoid arthritis , Norvir , a treatment for HIV , Depakote , an anticonvulsant drug , and Synthroid , a synthetic thyroid hormone . Abbott also has a broad range of diagnostics and immunoassay products as well as Ensure , a line of well known meal replacement shakes . Abbott’s in vitro diagnostics business is a world leader in immunoassays and blood screening . Abbott’s broad range of medical tests and diagnostic instrument systems are used worldwide by hospitals , laboratories , blood banks , and physician offices to diagnose and monitor diseases such as HIV , hepatitis , cancer , heart failure and metabolic disorders , as well as assess other important indicators of general health . Abbott Point - of - Care manufactures diagnostic products for blood analysis to provide health care professionals critical diagnostics information accurately and immediately at the point of patient care . In addition to its offerings in the blood gas and chemistries segment , Abbott also provides point - of - care cardiac assays to the emergency room . 3.8 Abbott Laboratories INCs . Abbott 's core businesses in the pharmaceutical and biomedical industries are organized into major divisions , which have recently been supplemented through several notable acquisitions . It has also divested itself of less profitable businesses through sales and spinoffs . Abbott 's principal divisions include Global Pharmaceutical Research and Development ( GPRD ) and Abbott Diagnostics Division ( ADD ) . In 2001 , Abbott acquired Knoll , the phamaceutical division of BASF . In 2004 , Abbott spun off its hospital products division into a new 14,000 employee company named Hospira , and acquired TheraSense , a diabetes care company , which it merged with its MediSense division to become Abbott Diabetes Care . In 2006 , Abbott assisted Boston Scientific in its purchase of Guidant Corporation . As part of the agreement , Abbott purchased the vascular device division of Guidant . In January 2007 , Abbott Laboratories agreed to sell its in vitro diagnostics and Point - of - Care diagnostics divisions to General Electric for more than $8 billion . These units are slated to be integrated into the GE Healthcare business unit . The transaction , which is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary conditions , has been approved by the Boards of Directors of Abbott and GE and is targeted to close in the first half of 2007 . The neutrality and factual accuracy of this section are disputed . Please see the relevant discussion on the ] . This section may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia 's quality standards . Please ] improve this article ] if you can . The tone or style of this article or section may not be appropriate for Wikipedia . Specific concerns may be found on the ] . See Wikipedia 's guide to writing better articles for suggestions . Since 1990 's , there are many drugs from Abbott that years later are found to have dangerous or toxic side - 