ABC Learning Centres Ltd. is an Australian company that is the world 's largest provider of childcare services . It is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange with a market capitalisation of $2.5 billion as at March 2006 . ABC Learning was founded in 1988 in Ashgrove , Brisbane , Queensland by Eddy Groves , now the Global Chief Executive Officer of the company . Co - founder Le Neve Groves , is a senior executive and is also a major shareholder in ABC . The husband and wife jointly own 14.5 % of the company . ABC rapidly expanded , reaching 43 childcare centres by June 30 , 2001 . By November 2005 , it had 697 childcare centres throughout Australia and New Zealand . In March 2006 , it forecast that would have 950 centres in Australia and New Zealand by June 30 , 2006 . It has purchased the third largest childcare operator in the United States Learning Care Group Inc. which itself operates 467 centres in the US and other educational facilities in south - east Asia . The purchase provides the ABC Learning with 70,000 additional licensed childcare places in addition to the 50,000 it had previously . Other mergers with Pepercorn Management Group and the purchase of Child Care Centres Australia helped provide a considerable increase in the number of ABC 's centres . The company plans to increases its number of centres by four a week . In March 2006 , it announced a bid for Kids Campus , one of its few remaining large competitors in Australia which would give it another 106 centres . On December 13 , 2006 it was announced that ABC would acquire the second largest child care provider in the United States , Chicago based La Petite Academy for 330 million US Dollars as well as the 5th largest provider in the UK , Busy Bees Group , Ltd . With these acquisitions they are expanding into the UK market and increasing their market share in the US to 1 % . It has expanded aggressively into the outsourcing of child care services , negotiating deals with some of Australia 's largest employers including the Australian Department of Defence which involved taking over the Department 's nineteen childcare facilities . Aside from offshore expansion , the company is also expanding in training and education . It runs the ABC Early Childhood Training College , providing training for childcare workers , publishes a magazine Small Wonders aimed at parents with young children . It is a highly profitable company , in the FY2004 / 5 recording net profit after tax of $52.3 million on total revenues of $292.7 million . The six months ending 31 December 2005 showed no slowing in the financial momentum for the company with profit after tax reaching $38 million and revenues of $219.8 million . Critics of ABC Learning say it is making these considerable profits at the expense of Australian taxpayers whose money subsidises the use of childcare with means - tested tax rebates . ABC Learning received $128 million of its revenue from government subsidies in the last financial year . There is also controversy about the dramatic expansion of the company with claims that in some areas ABC - by acquisition - has achieved a monopoly in the provision of childcare services . The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission reviewed the company 's acquisition of Peppercorn and permitted the deal to go ahead after imposing certain conditions including a requirement to close centres in some areas and agreeing not to 