The Abercrombie moose . Abercrombie & Fitch ( NYSE : ANF ) , is an American lifestyle brand specializing in " Casual Luxury " apparel for college students ages 18 through 22. A&F encompasses four brands : Abercrombie & Fitch , abercrombie , Hollister Co. , and RUEHL No.925 . The merchandise is sold in the brands ' retail stores , catalogs and online . As of January 2007 , the company operates 949 stores in all U.S. states except Wyoming , and six stores in Canada and a recently opened a store in Savile Row London , the first european flagship store . The company also has plans to continue expanding in Japan . Another brand , Concept 5 , is set to open its first store on January 2008 . A&F company is currently headed by Mike Jeffries . Founded in 1892 , the company was for many decades mainly an elite excursion goods retailer . After many years of success , the company struggled financially from the late 1960s until it was purchased by The Limited in 1988 and repositioned as a lifestyle brand in present day . In 1928 , Ezra Fitch retired from the company . Despite the change in ownership , Abercrombie & Fitch continued to expand . The company rarely sold product with a name brand during this period , preferring to label nearly everything with their own logo . A notable example is a line of watches made by Heuer , but that prestigious maker 's mark was only visible on the internal movement with " Abercrombie and Fitch " on the dial . Similar situations occurred across the product line . In 1939 , it adopted the slogan , " The Greatest Sporting Goods Store in the World. " . By 1962 , the company operated stores in Chicago ( formerly Von Lengerke & Antoine , an associated sporting goods retailer since 1928 ) , San Francisco , California , San malls in Short Hills , New Jersey ( 1963 ) , Bal Harbour , Florida ( 1966 ) , Troy , Michigan ( 1969 ) and Oak Brook , Illinois ( 1972 ) . Despite the chain 's apparent success , the company began to falter financially in the late 1960s and went bankrupt in 1977 . Oshman 's , a sporting goods retailer , acquired Abercrombie soon thereafter , but the company continued to struggle . During 1988 , The Limited Inc. ( now called Limited Brands ) acquired Abercrombie & Fitch , determined to reinvigorate the ailing brand . The Limited had been successful in rolling out new concept stores , such as Express ( women 's clothing ) , and Victoria 's Secret ( lingerie and beauty products ) . Over the next decade , Abercrombie & Fitch was carefully rebuilt as a teen apparel merchandiser by CEO Mike Jeffries . The company began opening stores in upscale malls across America in the early 1990s , targeting teenagers and college students aged 18 - 22 . The clothing consists of : woven shirts , denim , miniskirts , cargo shorts , wool sweaters , polo shirts , and t - shirts . The clothing produced in the 1990s was fairly consistent with the brand 's preppy image and tended to be less trend - driven than today 's offerings , which bear significantly less resemblance to traditional preppy apparel . The store quickly became successful , and by the mid - 1990s , there were dozens of Abercrombie & Fitch stores in the United States . Careful 