ABN AMRO ( Euronext : AAB , NYSE : ABN ) is one of the largest banks in Europe and has operations all over the world , its history going back to 1824 . It is the result of the merger in 1991 of Algemene Bank Nederland ( ABN ) and the Amsterdamsche - Rotterdamsche Bank ( AMRO ) . ABN AMRO Holding N.V. is the name of the holding company , which is listed on Euronext Amsterdam as part of the AEX index and the New York Stock Exchange , among other exchanges . Its main subsidiary is ABN AMRO Bank N.V . On April 23 2007 , Barclays announced an agreement to buy ABN AMRO in an all - share 67 billion € deal , according to Barclays ' John Varley " the largest merger ever in the global financial services and the biggest cross - border transaction " . ABN AMRO had come to a crossroads in the beginning of 2007 . The bank had still not come close to their own target of being in the top 5 of their peer group measured on ROE , a target that was set in 2000 by the then just appointed CEO Rijkman Groenink . From 2000 till 2006 , the ABN AMRO stock price had remained more or less stagnant . The financial results for the FY 06 added to concerns about the bank 's future . Operating expenses increased at a greater rate than operating revenue reflecting greater operating results difficulties . The efficiency ratio deteriorated further to 69.9 % . Non performing loans increased considerably year on year by 192 % . Net profits were only boosted by sustained asset sales . There had been some calls over the last couple of years for ABN AMRO to merge or to be acquired . On February 21 2007 , these calls became very concrete , when the TCI hedge fund asked the Chairman of the Supervisory Board to actively investigate a merger , acquisition or break up of ABN AMRO , stating that the current stock price did n't reflect the true value of the underlying assets . TCI asked the chairman to put their request on the agenda of the annual shareholders meeting of April 2007 . Events accelerated when on March 20 2007 , Barclays and ABN AMRO both confirmed they were in exclusive talks about a possible merger . On March 28 2007 , ABN AMRO published the agenda for the shareholding meeting of 2007 . It included all items requested by TCI , but with the recommendation not to follow the request for a break up of the company . However , on April 13 2007 , Royal Bank of Scotland contacted ABN AMRO to propose a deal in which a consortium of banks including RBS , Fortis and Banco Santander Central Hispano will jointly bid for ABN AMRO and thereafter , break up the different divisions of the company . According to the proposed deal , RBS would takeover ABN 's Chicago operations , LaSalle , and possibly ABN 's wholesale operations while Banco Santander would take the Brazilian operations and Fortis , the Dutch operations . On April 23 2007 , ABN AMRO and Barclays announced their proposed merger . The deal was valued at €67 billion . Part of the deal was the sell of the LaSalle Bank to Bank of America for €21 billion . On April 25 2007 the RBS led consortium brought out their indicative offer worth €72 Billion , if ABN AMRO would abandoned its sale 