AboveNet , Inc. is an Internet Service Provider in the United States and Europe . Its services include Internet access , Internet transit , metro Ethernet , dark fiber and end - to - end optical link services including DWDM . It has extensive metro area fiber networks in 14 US cities and London . AboveNet was formed in the mid - 1990s as a colocation provider in San Jose , California . The company expanded rapidly and IPOed in 1998 . In 1999 the company was purchased by Metromedia Fiber Network ( MFN ) , a White Plains , New York - based dark fiber company . Later the combined company dropped the AboveNet name , and changed its ticker symbol to MFNX . At its peak in March 2000 , MFN had a market cap of $27 billion , and was a member of the NASDAQ 100 index . After a series of major accounting errors and management missteps , as well as the collapse of the dot - com bubble , MFN entered a severe liquidity crisis and was unable to obtain additional loans to continue operating . In April 2002 , they announced that the financial results for the first three quarters of 2001 would be restated , including a charge of approximate $4 billion , and that they could not file a year - end financial statement . The company filed for Chapter 11 in March 2002 . As part of the Chapter 11 process the company sold off many of its non - core metro networks in the US and mainland Europe , retaining a smaller but more viable footprint . The much smaller , reorganized company changed its name back to AboveNet when emerging from bankruptcy in September 2003 , and now trades on the pink sheets as ABVT . Previous shares of MFNX became worthless . The company is now debt free and expanding once more . It has extensive metro fiber networks in London , Boston , New York , Philadelphia , Baltimore , Washington DC , Atlanta , Chicago , Dallas , Houston , Phoenix , Los Angeles , San Francisco , Portland and Seattle . It connects more than 1000 optically enabled buildings , with more than 1.5 million metro fiber miles . AboveNet 's core service offerings include ; Dark Fiber , Ethernet , IP , CWDM and DWDM . AboveNet has built a solid reputation as a managed network provider for Financial and Data Center companies and retains a number of high profile customers . 