ABS - CBN Broadcasting Corporation ( PSE : ABS ) ( ABS - CBN : " Alto Broadcasting System - Chronicle Broadcasting Network " ) , a Philippine multi - media conglomerate , is the country 's largest television and radio broadcast company . It was founded on October 23,1953 , becoming Asia 's first commercial television broadcaster . It is part of the Lopez Group of Companies . It also broadcasts content to the rest of the world through The Filipino Channel . The network 's main broadcast facilities , news headquarters , transmitter and satellite operations and studio complex are located at the ABS - CBN Broadcast Center at Barangay Laging Handa , Diliman , Quezon City . In Metro Manila , its terrestrial VHF station is Channel 2 ( DWWX - TV ) while its terrestrial UHF station is Studio 23 / Channel 23 ( DWAC - TV ) . The company traces its beginnings to June 13 , 1946 , when James Lindenberg , an American engineer who also known as the father of Philippine Television , established the Bolinao Electronics Corporation ( BEC ) , which specialized in assembling transmitters . Realizing the potential of television in the country , he was the first to apply to for a license in Congress to estabish a television station in 1949 , which was granted a year later . By then , due to the scarcity of raw materials and import controls imposed that time , BEC was compelled to branch into radio broadcasting instead . In 1952 , the late Judge Antonio " Tony " Quirino ( 1917 - 1992 ) , brother - then of the late President Elpidio Quirino ( 1890 - 1956 ) who was also looking to set up a television station , bought 70 % of BEC and had it renamed to Alto Broadcasting System ( ABS , with Alto from Antonio Quirino 's wife , Aleli and his name , Tony. ) . Lindenberg , however , remained as part - owner and served as general manager of the station . In 1953 DZAQ - TV 3 ( the " AQ " part stands for Antonio Quirino ) was introduced as the country 's first television channel and made its first broadcast on October 23 , 1953 . In April 1958 , Chronicle Broadcasting Network ( CBN , with the name " Chronicle " coming from The Manila Chronicle ) , a radio network established in 1956 by sibling businessmen Eugenio H. Lopez Sr. ( 1901 - 1975 ) and Vice - President Fernando H. Lopez ( 1904 - 1993 ) , branched into television broadcasting , and bought ABS from Quirino in the same year with both signing a Memorandum of Agreement on a table napkin . Also in the same table napkin , the logo was also sketched . The network grew , and by 1961 , its stations DZAQ - TV 3 and DZXL - TV 9 could be received anywhere in the country from a number of affiliates . February 1 , 1967 marked the formal merger of ABS and CBN under the name " ABS - CBN Broadcasting Corporation " . In 1968 , ABS - CBN inaugurated its broadcast center in Diliman , Quezon City that included eight sound - and - stage production studios and control rooms , a master control room , editing and technical terminal areas , as well as offices and support facilities for network television and provincial AM and FM radio . Also by mid - 1970 , ABS 