Accenture ( NYSE : ACN , ISIN : BMG1150G1116 ) is a global management consulting , technology services and outsourcing company . Its organizational structure includes divisions based on client industry types and employee workforces . Industry divisions , referred to as Operating Groups , include Products ( e.g. consumer packaged goods or industrial equipment ) , Communications High Technology and Media ( ' CHT ' ) , Financial Services ( e.g. banking , insurance ) , Resources ( e.g. utilities , chemicals , energy ) , and Government . The employee workforce divisions are respectively titled Consulting , Services , Enterprise , and Solutions . Accenture originated as the consulting division of Arthur Andersen . Its origin goes back to 1953 , when GE asked Arthur Andersen to undertake a feasibility study about payroll processing and manufacturing automation using computers ( GE had bought the first U.S. business computer for the Appliance Park manufacturing park , in Louisville ) . Joseph Glickauf was Arthur Andersen 's project leader for the GE engagement and was responsible for the payroll processing automation , launching the era of data processing . Considered to be the father of computer consulting , Glickauf headed the Arthur Andersen administrative services division for 12 years . In 1989 , that division split from Arthur Andersen and began using the name Andersen Consulting . Both Arthur Andersen and Andersen Consulting consisted of groups of locally - owned independent partnerships and other entities around the world , each in a contractual agreement with Andersen Worldwide Société Coopérative ( AWSC ) , a Swiss administrative entity . Through the 1990s there was increasing tension between Andersen Consulting and Arthur Andersen . Andersen Consulting was upset that it was paying Arthur Andersen up to 15 % of its profits each year ( a condition of the 1989 split was that the more profitable unit - AA or AC - paid the other this sum ) , while at the same time Arthur Andersen was competing with Andersen Consulting through its own newly established business consulting service line . This dispute came to a head in 1998 when Andersen Consulting claimed breach of contract against AWSC and Arthur Andersen . Andersen Consulting put the 15 % transfer payment for that year and future years into escrow and issued a claim for breach of contract . In August 2000 , as a result of a conclusion of the International Chamber of Commerce , Andersen Consulting broke all contractual ties with AWSC and Arthur Andersen . As part of the arbitration settlement , Andersen Consulting paid over the sum held in escrow ( then $1.2 billion ) to Arthur Andersen , and was required to change its name , resulting in the entity being renamed Accenture . On 2001 - 01 - 01 , Andersen Consulting adopted its current name , " Accenture " . The word " Accenture " is derived from " Accent on the future " . Although a marketing consultancy was tasked with finding a new name for the company , the name " Accenture " was chosen by an employee from the Oslo office , as a result of an internal competition . The choice of name also means that the company appears closer towards the top of any alphabetised lists , and retains the AC letter sequence of its previous identity . It is also rumored that while the idea came from someone in the Oslo office , the thought that started that idea came from the training regimen that most all new employees to AC ( 