ACCORD is an Indian Corporate that produces a variety of GPS products , Avionics Software , Enterprise Applications and Aerospace systems for a wide variety of customers , from governments to various major corporations.Accord has many brands that consumers may recognize in various areas of services and products offered globally . Accord maintains a very active community involvement program called ' Accord Social Welfare Club ' also called ASWC . Executes customized projects for clients worldwide in the fields of Enterprise solutions , Embedded Systems Programming , Avionics software development and Independent Software Validation and Verification . Offers Turnkey Development of algorithms , hardware and software for clients worldwide in the areas of base band Digital Signal Processing , Wireless Communications and Navigation . Offers innovative and customizable GPS Receiver solutions for Aerospace , Automotive , and Personal navigation applications through continuous in house research and development . Analog Devices , Inc USA . GPS Signal Tap is a L1 frequency GPS Receiver front end which serves as a programmable real time source of digitized GPS signal for a variety of desktop research and development related to signal processing . Accord 's GPSLAB is a PC based software simulator of vehicle dynamics and GPS / SBAS ( Satellite Based Augmentation System ) constellations . GPSLAB simulates the vehicle’s 3D dynamics in real time and models the behavior of a GPS receiver . Simulated outputs are displayed on the screen , stored in files and also transmitted on the serial port in real time . Signal Tap consists of a three stage RF down converter whose third IF can be sampled and stored for analysis by the user at a programmable frequency . Accord 's GPS Correlator Simulator is a very powerful software package for understanding the characteristics of the GPS satellite signal and its processing in a typical GPS receiver . It provides a sound platform to experiment with various modules that constitute the signal processing section of a GPS receiver . This counter system is designed to achieve high reliability and synchronized count - down or count - up operation when operated in Master - Slave configuration . For operation in Master - Slave mode two counter units shall be operated with interconnection . Each unit has One Pulse Per Second ( PPS ) , Binary Coded Decimal ( BCD ) and IRIG - B ( dc ) corresponding to the count as its output . In Master –Slave mode outputs of both the units will be synchronized to each other with an accuracy of 100ns ( typical ) . GPS Clock precise timing and frequency synchronization unit provides a One Pulse Per second ( 1 PPS ) signal , which is synchronized to UTC within 100 - nano seconds ( typical ) accuracy . The unit also provides time and date in ASCII format message on the RS232 port . NAV2400 - HS is a 12 - channel Global Positioning System Receiver ( GPSR ) chipset solution based on Analog Devices RF front end , ADSST - GPSRF and Analog devices base band processor ADSST - NAVDSP and ADSST - 200X Accelerator ASIC.The chipset offers industry best sensitivity and Time To First Fix ( TTFF ) . Accord 's AutoSensorLab is a PC based software simulator of vehicle dynamics and navigation sensors . AutoSensorLab simulates the vehicle’s 3D dynamics in real time and models the behavior of GPS receiver , gyroscope and odometer . 