Accolade was a video game developer and publisher of the 1980s and 1990s . It was founded in 1984 by game industry veterans Alan Miller and Bob Whitehead . Miller and Whitehead founded Accolade after leaving another game developer and publisher they had founded , Activision , the first third - party game developer . According to legend , Miller and Whitehead named their company " Accolade " because it came before " Activision " alphabetically—implying that Accolade was superior to their previous company . Apparently when forming Activision , they chose that name because it came before " Atari. " . Later , a new game development company , Acclaim , another company formed from ex - Activision employees , apparently formulated their name because it came before " Accolade. " . Absolute Entertainment , again , a third company formed from ex - Activision people , ended up being first with the ' first in the alphabet ' race . Accolade developed for most 80s - era home computers , including the Commodore 64 , Atari 400 & 800 , the Amiga , Apple II and the PC. Accolade quickly became known for developing only top - notch games . Some of their first titles include Law of the West , Psi - 5 Trading Company , The Dam Busters , Mean 18 Golf , Test Drive , and Hardball ! . Test Drive and Hardball ! . As the popularity of other systems waned , Accolade focused on PC and console development , including the NES , Mega Drive / Genesis , SNES and Sony PlayStation during those systems ' popularity . All of Accolade 's initial titles were developed in - house . But being a publisher as well as a developer , Accolade began to publish titles produced by other developers as well . By the mid - 1990s , most of Accolade software development was done by third - party developers . In 1992 , Accolade was involved in a ground - breaking lawsuit regarding console development . Accolade was unhappy with the high development fees Sega and Nintendo were charging . Instead of paying the fees , Accolade reverse engineered the SNES and the Mega Drive / Genesis . Sega sued Accolade over the practice and won an initial injunction , forcing Accolade to remove all Genesis product from store shelves . Accolade , however , won on appeal and reached an out of court settlement with Sega that allowed Accolade to continue building their own Genesis cartidges . The company had marginal successes during the early 1990s . Bubsy for the Sega Genesis and Super Nintendo sold well and was the companies best - selling game until Test Drive 4 came out in 1997 . Star Control 2 for the PC ( 1992 , DOS ) is still very well regarded and was one of the highest rated games of its time . However , beginning in the mid - 1990s , Accolade started publishing a variety of games of differing genres which were undistinguished and lacked polish . During a conference of management and producers , Accolade decided to focus only on sports , action games . Accolade already had several franchises based in these categories . Franchises in the sports genre included Hardball ! , Unnecessary Roughness and Jack Nicklaus Golf . In the broad " action " category they had the long - running franchise Test Drive . Alan Miller left Accolade in 1995 ; Bob Whitehead had left shortly after the founding of the company . Before Miller 