Acette is an Information Technology System Integrator , Software Engineering and Consulting firm headquartered in Dubai Internet City . Acette provides technology strategy consulting services , enterprise application integration services , Information technology enabled services and Value - added reseller services to banks and other financial services companies , industrial companies , trading houses and government organizations in Asia , Africa , Europe and North America . The name Acette ( pr . The corporate philosophy at Acette is that it’s customers should derive value to their business from both domain knowledge and technical expertise encapsulated in Acette’s services , solutions and products . In early 2002 Acette developed a range of SMS solutions to cater to the messaging requirements of various industry verticals , such as financial services , logistics and manufacturing industries . Large enterprises such international courier service companies have implemented proof of delivery systems that employ Acette’s SMS messaging engine . One of Acette’s flagship products is BankSmart , an SMS Banking solution built over an SMS gateway to provide secure Push and Pull functionalities for banks to offer its customers the facility to perform both financial and non - financial banking transactions over a GSM mobile phone . Representing various specialised construction industry software solution vendors , Acette acts as a distributor and value - added reseller of vertical market software solutions for the construction industry . In this line of business , Acette offers proprietary tools for cost estimation modelling , quantity surveying , property valuation , construction administration and project management , including main contractor and subcontractor management and project and business administration systems for design consultants in construction industry . Acette’s Consulting division undertakes technology - based strategic studies . More specifically the services in this regard focus on market entry strategies for businesses planning to deploying new technology - enabled solutions such as electronic payment systems , smart - card based Customer loyalty systems , cryptography solutions etc . Acette’s IT Governance practice assists larger corporate entities to develop their IT Governance Framework specifically suited for their relevant lines of business . In developing IT governance frameworks Acette employs widely accepted methodologies and frameworks , such as COBIT and ITIL . Acette also assists banks and other large corporate entities to develop their IT strategy and roadmap . This Service Division at Acette encompasses a range of activities delivering project management , cost management and program management . Acette’s project management consulting group provides a range of management and IT consultancy services including : program and project management , change management , performance improvement , strategy and planning and IT solutions advisory services . Acette provides independent IT facilities management services to the banking sector and selected private sector clients . Acette takes on outsourcing engagements to run the IT facilities and IT enabled business processes of its key clients . Acette’s predecessor and erstwhile consulting firm , 3 Aces , developed the world’s first Aramaic word processor in the year 1986 . Acette’s BankSmart SMS Banking solution and gateway is the Middle East’s first English and Arabic enabled multilingual packaged SMS Banking software solution . Adult FriendFinder · Amazon · AOL · Ask.com · CNET · eBay · DeviantArt · Elfwood · Expedia.ca · Facebook · Google · Hi5 · Lycos · Metacafe · Monster.ca · MySpace · Nexopia · Travelocity · WebEx · Workopolis · WordPress · Yahoo ! . 