Acme Brick Company is an American manufacturer and distributor of brick and masonry - related construction products and materials . Founder , George E. Bennett ( October 6 , 1852 - July 3 , 1907 ) , chartered the company in Alton , Illinois as the ' Acme Pressed Brick Company ' on April 17 , 1891 . The company grew to become the largest American - owned brick manufacturer by the mid - 20th century , was the first of its type to offer a 100 - year limited guarantee to its customers , and was acquired by Berkshire Hathaway , Inc. on August 1 2000 . In 1890 , Acme Pressed Brick Company was established fifteen miles southwest of Weatherford near present - day Farm Road 113 , in southwestern Parker County , TX. The company town that evolved from the establishment of the manufacturing plant was called ' Bennett ' . The community included Acme Brick homes ( for 100 employees and their families ) , a church , a public school , and a general store . In 1916 , Acme Pressed Brick stockholders elected new officers , applied for a Texas charter , began doing business as Acme Brick Company , and dissolved the company chartered in Illinois . Walter R. Bennett ( George E. Bennett 's son ) was elected the first president of the newly renamed Acme Brick Company . In 1968 , a merger of the Acme Brick Company and the Justin Boot Company resulted in the formation of the First Worth Corporation . In 1972 , First Worth Corp. changed its name to Justin Industries , Inc. , a ' parent ' corporation who would grow to acquire many ' children ' companies . In 1976 , Featherlite ( then known as Kingstip - Featherlite ) was acquired . Featherlite began as a Texas - based , privately held company in 1949 . Featherlite began acquiring concrete block companies in 1953 and continued it 's expansion over the years - now operating 7 block producing facilities and 2 cement bagging facilities in Texas and 3 other locations . In 1981 , as housing starts hit a 35 - year low , Acme built inventory : 400 million brick were manufactured by the year 's end . In 1984 , record housing starts propelled Acme to record sales years in 1983 and 1984 . Acme Brick stamps its logo into the end of select bricks . In 1987 , Acme began stamping its logo on one end of select residential brick . This tradition in brand recognition continues today . In 1993 , Troy Aikman , Hall of Fame quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys football team , became an Acme Brick spokesperson - initially in radio and print advertising , and later on television . In 1994 , American Tile Supply , a tile distributor and retailer in Texas , was acquired . In 1997 , Fort Worth - based Innovative Building Products , developer and manufacturer of a mortarless installation system for glass block windows , skylights , shower enclosures , and floors , was acquired . In 2000 , the Justin Industries Board of Directors approved the sale of the publicly traded company to Warren Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway . The boot companies and the building companies were split to form Justin Brands and Acme Building Brands as separate entities . Acme Brick Company , the leading domestically owned United States manufacturer of face brick . Featherlite Building Products Corporation , the leading Southwest producer of concrete masonry products . 