Acorn Computers was a British computer company established in Cambridge , England , in 1978 . The company produced a number of computers which were especially popular in the UK . These included the Acorn Electron , the BBC Micro and the Acorn Archimedes . Acorn 's BBC Micro computer dominated the UK educational computer market during the 1980s and early 1990s , drawing many comparisons with Apple in the U.S. Though the company was broken up into several independent operations in 1998 , it leaves an impressive legacy , particularly in the development of RISC personal computers . A number of Acorn 's former subsidiaries , notably ARM Holdings , live on today . Although a new company licensed the Acorn trademark in 2006 to sell a range of branded laptop computers , the company has no staff or technology associated with the previous incarnation of the company . On 25 July 1961 , Clive Sinclair founded Sinclair Radionics to develop and sell electronic devices such as calculators . The failure of the Black Watch wristwatch and the calculator market 's move from LEDs to LCDs led to financial problems , and Sinclair approached the National Enterprise Board ( NEB ) for help . After losing control of the company to the NEB , Sinclair encouraged Chris Curry to leave Radionics and get Science of Cambridge ( SoC ) up and running . In June 1978 , SoC launched a microcomputer kit that Curry wanted to develop further , but Sinclair could not be persuaded . During the development of the MK14 , Hermann Hauser , a friend of Curry 's , had been visiting SoC 's offices and had grown interested in the product . Hermann Hauser and Chris Curry in Cambridge . Curry and Hauser decided to pursue their joint interest in microcomputers and , on 5 December 1978 , they set up Cambridge Processor Unit Ltd ( CPU ) as the vehicle with which to do this . CPU soon obtained a consultancy contract to develop a microprocessor - based controller for a fruit machine for Ace Coin Equipment ( ACE ) of Wales . The ACE project was started at office space obtained at 4a Market Hill in Cambridge . Initially , the ACE controller was based on a SC / MP microprocessor , but soon the switch to a 6502 was made . CPU had financed the development of a 6502 - based microcomputer system using the income from its design - and - build consultancy . This system was launched in January 1979 as the first product of Acorn Computer Ltd , a trading name used by CPU to keep the risks of the two different lines of business separate . Acorn was chosen because the microcomputer system was to be expandable and growth - oriented . It also had the attraction of appearing before " Apple " in a telephone directory . Around this time , CPU and Andy Hopper set up Orbis Ltd to commercialise the Cambridge Ring networking system Hopper had worked on for his PhD , but it was soon decided to bring him into CPU as a director because he could promote CPU 's interests at the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory . CPU purchased Orbis , and Hopper 's Orbis shares were exchanged for shares in CPU Ltd. CPU 's role gradually changed as its Acorn brand grew , and soon CPU was simply the holding company and Acorn was responsible for development work . At some point Curry had a disagreement with Sinclair and formally left 