Acura ( アキュラ ) is a brand name used by the Japanese car manufacturer Honda in the US , Canada and Hong Kong since March 1986 to market luxury automobiles and near - luxury vehicles . The brand was introduced to Mexico in 2004 and to the Chinese market in 2006 . It is also planned to extend Acura to the Japanese domestic market in 2008 . With the Acura brand , Honda is credited with being the first to tap into a market for luxury Japanese cars outside Japan . Before Acura , automobiles exported from Japan were primarily economical in design and largely targeted at low - cost consumers . In 1986 , following a decade of research and development , the Honda Motor Company opened 18 all - new dealerships in North America to support its Acura automobile division . Acura was the first Japanese luxury brand to appear , and its initial offerings consisted of four models : the Legend , a V6 - powered coupe and sedan , and the Integra , available as a five - door and four - door hatchback , as well as a sedan . The success of these models led to competing Japanese luxury brand ventures ( Toyota 's Lexus and Nissan 's Infiniti ) . In 1990 , four years after the debut of the Legend and Integra , Acura introduced the NSX , a midship V6 powered , rear - wheel - drive sports car . The NSX , an acronym for " New Sports eXperimental " , was billed as the first Japanese car capable of competing with Ferrari and Porsche . This vehicle served as a halo car for the Acura brand . The NSX was the world 's first all - aluminum production car . Despite a strong start for the Acura brand ( in terms of market acceptance ) , sales suffered in the mid - to late 1990s . Some critics attributed this decline in part to less inspiring designs . Additionally , during this time Acura switched to an alphanumeric nomenclature formula , dropping the Legend and Integra titles . The 1996 3.5 RL , which replaced the popular Legend , was seen by many as the epitome of this problem , namely because the RL designation was more anonymous than the former Legend title . Also , the RL 's 210 - horsepower V6 ( later increased to 225 hp ) and front - wheel drive , together with a high price and styling that cautiously copied the larger and more powerful Lexus LS 400 , did little against BMW , Audi , and Lexus , and other competitors . During this time , the NSX also lost sales as Acura made few changes from its original 1989 trim . A year later , the Integra sedan was withdrawn , replaced by the Acura 1.6EL , which was only sold in Canada as a rebadged Honda Civic . The Integra sedan continued to be sold in the United States until 2001 . Despite these letdowns , Acura gained prominence in the 1990s with a young group of customers : tuner enthusiasts . Parent company Honda 's reputation with this demographic as a maker of " easy - to - tune " and " rev - happy " engines rubbed off onto Acura , and the Integra became a popular tuner car . The Acura 3.2 TL . Beginning around the year 2000 , Acura experienced a rebirth which was catalyzed by the introduction of several redesigned models . The first 