Acxiom is a customer and data information management company , offering a range of products and services including information technology outsourcing . Founded in 1969 under the name Demographics by Charles D. Ward in Conway , Arkansas and later headed by Charles D. Morgan , Acxiom is currently headquartered in Little Rock , Arkansas . The company has opened offices in Chicago , Illinois , Phoenix , Arizona , New York , New York , San Mateo , California and Nashville , Tennessee . There are also international offices in the United Kingdom , France , Germany , Netherlands , Portugal , Poland , Spain , Australia , and China . In addition to collecting detailed information about people , they also predict the futures of these people to help with marketing , according to the documentary " The Persuaders. " . There are 70 types of consumers according to this corporation . Acxiom is an industry leader in the area of grid computing with its CII ( Customer Information Infrastructure ) . Acxiom Corporation is a major company in the Customer relationship management market and provides IT outsourcing services for a variety of Fortune 500 companies . The corporation has been listed several times by both Computerworld and Forbes as one of the 100 best companies to work for in the United States . The company has also received mention as one of the best companies for working women in the US . In early 2004 , Acxiom acquired Claritas , a major European data provider . In early 2006 , EMC Corporation acquired Acxiom’s information grid software in a $30 million deal . On May 16 , 2007 , Acxiom agreed to be bought by leading investment firms Silver Lake and ValueAct Capital in an all cash deal valued at $3.0 billion , including the assumption of about $756 million of debt . Acxiom Corporation Company Profile , Yahoo ! Finance . Acxiom Corporation website . Acxiom Digital Named a Top 50 Interactive Agency By Advertising Age Magazine , Business Wire , 2006 - 06 - 01 . Acxiom Profits Leap , The Street.com , 2006 - 05 - 18 . 