Adam4Adam is an online dating website designed for men to meet other men " for friendship , romance , or a hot hookup " . Out of over 800 personal sites ( heterosexual and otherwise ) in the United States , Times Herald - Record mentions Adam4Adam as among the most notable . In December 2006 , Hitwise ranked it among the top ten . As of September 2005 , San Jose Mercury News ranked Adam4Adam as the second most popular online gay personals site in the country ( being ranked benhind Gay.com ) . As of March 2007 , Hitwise ranked it number one ( the number two and three position being occupied by Manhunt and Gay.com . Adam4Adam was launched in 2003 by a company called " Convergent Ideas , LLC " and is now operated by " A4A Network Inc. " . Adam4Adam 's members are mostly in the United States . Unlike similar competitors , Adam4Adam does not charge members to use its full range of services . Instead , Adam4Adam receives revenue from advertising , particularly from pay - per - view pornographic websites and companies offering erection enhancement drugs like sildenafil , vardenafil , tadalafil and their generic drug equivalents through mail order . Screenshot of an Adam4Adam profile in East London . The United Kingdom is the only area outside North America that definitely has more than 100 members . No actual usernames are shown here . The site offers a " plan - a - trip feature " to locate potential friends or dates where one is headed . It also has a specific way of posting party invitations . Although Adam4Adam has members of all ethnic groups , the percentage of non - White men represented in member profiles is higher than the percentage on non - White people in the United States population , though the degree to which this is true varies by city / region . This is also true of Adam4Adam membership in the United Kingdom . Unlike Manhunt and some other sites , Adam4Adam does not prohibit escort ads . As with most sites of this type , members are allowed to post nude photos and many choose to do so . Adam4Adam provides a " Health Resource " page as well as a page devoted to " Online Safety Tips " . The site encourages health organizations to create " Health Counselor " accounts . All these measures encourage good health practices such as safe sex , getting tested for sexually transmitted infections and avoiding methamphetamine addiction . This site gives you a taste of every type of man around . If you want white , black , latin , Mexican , mixed , or whateva . . .Party listings , member directory , visitors list , and new members list all help with your journey to find your Adam This site has its ups and downs , from continuous updates , which shuts the site down for days , to a lacking of attractive members . This site is basically for the new comers to online dating . A review for this site posted at About.com mostly uses text from the Adam4Adam website itself and , as such , is totally positive in its assessment . Adam4Adam.com , along with Manhunt.net and Craigslist.org , has been mentioned as having a possible relationship to the transmission of Sexually transmitted diseases in a a news report released by Reuters and subsequently picked up by several major print media publications including The Boston Globe and the Scientific 