ADC Telecommunications ( NASDAQ : ADCT ) is a communications company located in Eden Prairie , Minnesota , a southwest suburb of Minneapolis . In 1935 , Ralph Allison founded ADC Telecommunications in the basement of his south Minneapolis home , inventing ADC 's very first product , the audiometer , an electronic device designed to test hearing . Two years later , fellow engineer Walt Lehnert joined Allison , and together they diversified the company 's product line to include amplifiers and transformers for the broadcast industry . By 1942 , the company had designed a sophisticated audio system for the University of Minnesota , and the resulting jacks , plugs , patch cords and jackfields became the cornerstones for ADC 's later entry into telecommunications . In 1949 , ADC sold its audiometer product line and Ralph Allison left the company to form a new business in California . ADC diversified and focused its efforts in the area of transformers and filters for power lines , military electronics , telephone jacks and plugs . In 1961 , ADC merged with Magnetic Controls Company , a manufacturer of power supplies and magnetic amplifiers with strong ties to the U.S. space program . The resulting company , ADC Magnetic Controls , had a decade of mixed success . Although transformer sales boomed during the 1960s , other new product initiatives failed to materialize . Perhaps the most significant product innovation during this period was the bantam jack , a miniaturized component that eventually became the standard for telephone circuit access and patching . Building on its growing sales of jacks and plugs in the early 1970s , ADC introduced prewired , connectorized jackfields , wired assemblies and test equipment for telephone operating companies . By 1974 the company was on solid ground , and by 1976 , ADC had become the largest independent supplier of test boards in the United States . ADC grew in 1983 , when AT&T was ordered to deregulate by the federal government . By establishing the seven Regional Bell Operating Company ( RBOC ) carriers as independent entities , the U.S. market for telecommunications expanded by 90 percent . ADC became a supplier for the RBOCs . ADC embarked on some acquisitions in the early 1990s , attempting to move " up the stack " in the datacom field by acquiring companies that manufactured datacom equipment . However , their ability to find synergies between these companies proved limited and eventually ADC was forced to move away from a hardware - only strategy , broadening out into software . This effort resulted in limited success as well , and happening about the same time as the dot - com bubble burst , caused ADC stock to plummet . Despite these ups and downs , ADC has survived . Today , ADC provides communication network infrastructure for wireless , wireline cable , broadcast , and enterprise networks around the world . It generates three - fourths of its sales from broadband infrastructure equipment designed for public and private networks . Customers include Verizon , BellSouth , Sprint / Nextel , Graybar Electric , and Time Warner Cable . Robert E. Switz is the current President and CEO . In 1993 , ADC acquired Fibermux Corp. , a manufacturer of LAN Hubs and Data Multiplexers , later merging the Fibermux division with the Kentrox subsidiary . ADC also acquired American Lightwave Systems , a manufacturer of uncompressed video transport equipment for telecom carriers . This division was later sold to C - COR Electronics . In 1996 