Adelphia Communications Corporation , named after the Greek word " brothers " , was the fifth largest cable company in the United States before filing for bankruptcy in 2002 due to internal corruption . Adelphia was founded in 1952 within the town of Coudersport , Pennsylvania . The headquarters for the company was moved to Greenwood Village , Colorado shortly after filing for bankruptcy . The majority of Adelphia 's revenue - generating assets were officially acquired by Time Warner Cable and Comcast on July 31 , 2006 . Currently , LFC an internet - based real estate marketing firm , is auctioning the remaining Adelphia real estate assets . There are 73 properties in 17 different states available for auction . The auction deadline is June 14th , 2007 . As a result of this acquisition , Adelphia no longer exists as a cable provider . Adelphia 's long - distance telephone business with 110,000 customers in 27 states ( telephone & long - distance services ) was sold to Pioneer Telephone for about $1.2 million . Had the 110,000 telephone customers been shut off versus being sold to Pioneer Telephone , those customers would have more than likely left Adelphia cable and high speed internet services . The potential financial damage to the creditors of Adelphia was over $150 million dollars . Although the purchase price by Pioneer Telephone was relatively small ( $1.2 million ) the transaction was very significant . It still exists as a corporate entity , continuing largely to settle ongoing financial obligations and litigation claims , as well as to consummate settlements with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney . It plans to sell most of its remaining real estate assets via a large Internet property auction . Adelphia 's Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization has been marked by extensive disputes between creditors over the distribution of proceeds . The dispute mainly pits creditors of the parent company ( Adelphia Communications Corporation ) against the creditors of the various operating subsidiaries ( primarily , Arahova , also known as Century Communications ) . This dispute is ongoing . The effective date of the Adelphia Plan of Reorganization occurred on February 13 , 2007 . Time Warner Cable was the allowed to distribute approximately $6 billion in shares to Adelphia stakeholders and succeed Adelphia as a publicly traded corporation . The founders of Adelphia were charged with securities violations , but despite five officers being indicted , only two ( John Rigas and Timothy Rigas ) were found guilty ; the others were acquitted of some or all the charges . Rigas founded Adelphia with a $300 license in 1952 , took the company public in 1986 and built it up by acquiring other systems in the 1990s . The company collapsed into bankruptcy in 2002 after it disclosed $2.3 billion in off - balance - sheet debt . Federal prosecutors said the Rigases used complicated cash - management systems to spread money around to various family - owned entities and as a cover for stealing $100 million for themselves . A second Rigas son , Michael , former executive vice president for operations , was acquitted of conspiracy and wire fraud in 2005 . However , jurors were deadlocked on certain counts , and Michael Rigas is scheduled for a second trial . Former Adelphia assistant treasurer Michael Mulcahey was acquitted of all charges . John and Timothy Rigas are free pending appeal . One previous marker of Adelphia 's success before its bankruptcy included the naming of a football stadium , Adelphia Coliseum 