ADK , also known as Alpha Denshi Corp. , was a Japanese video game company , very famous in the 1990s , who made various games mainly for SNK 's Neo - Geo platform , as many console games . ADK was born in 1980 at Saitama , Japan . The first game of ADK called Janputer ( ジャンピュータ , Janputer ? ) , the world first Mahjong game in arcade , was sold by Sanritsu Giken Corp. After , Sega and Tecmo sold the game of ADK that had been produced in the first half of 1980 's . On the other hand , SNK sold the game that ADK produced when becoming it in the latter half of 1980 's . ADK made games for many genres , including sports , shooters , platforms and fighting games ( includes VS fighting and beat ' em ups ) . The company became quite famous , having considerable success in North America . In early 90 's , ADK created a brand - new arcade game system ( it called Neo Geo , SNK sold this system ) , and developed many games for Neo Geo . But in the mid - 90 's , ADK failed to capture much success . The company eventually went bankrupt and closed its installations in nearly 2000 . SNK would later buy its properties . Today , ADK has a new renaissance under the hands of SNK Playmore , with new appearances of its characters , mainly in the recent fighing game Neo Geo Battle Coliseum , where Hanzo , Fuuma , Mudman and Neo Dio from the World Heroes series appeared , as well as Kisarah Westfield and Joe Kusanagi ( in a cameo in one of Kisarah 's attacks ) from Aggressors of Dark Kombat . Also some of ADK characters have an appearance in the recent SNK VS Capcom Card Fighters DS game , like Hanzo from WH and Sasuke from Ninja Master 's . Their characters appears in this game as SNK character cards and as Action and Counter cards . ADK reference in Aggressors of Dark Kombat . ADK made various video games of many genres , but the most famous games from them are the fighting games , especially the World Heroes series . One of the last games that ADK released , the Aggressors of Dark Kombat , shares its name with the letters of the company ( Aggressors of Dark Kombat ) . And also they parodied the Mortal Kombat series with this name ( putting the word Combat with K instead C ) . All the ADK games are being emulated by M.A.M.E. ( games before 1990 ) and Neo - Geo emulators ( NeoRageX , Kawaks and Nebula ) . VGM 's Neo - Geo Endings - Page with various endings from ADK games . This video game corporation or company - related article is a stub . You can help by expanding it . 