VTech Innovation , L.P. , doing business as Advanced American Telephones , is a telephone manufacturing company . American Bell Consumer Products was created on January 1 , 1983 as a unit of American Bell , Inc. , upon declaration by the Modification of Final Judgment that AT&T had to sell equipment to the public through an entirely separate subsidiary . ABCP sold terminal equipment traditionally available through the Bell System such as the Touchamatic . American Bell products could be found at Bell PhoneCenter Stores , as well as department stores such as Sears and Target . American Bell products were not marked with any Bell name , simply marked " Western Electric " and the Bell logo , as any products sold through American Bell were not " Bell System Property " . Upon the divestiture of the Bell System from AT&T , American Bell was renamed AT&T Information Systems , and American Bell Consumer Products was renamed AT&T Consumer Products , and Bell PhoneCenters were renamed AT&T Phone Centers . Bell and Western Electric markings were replaced with AT&T on telephone housings . AT&T Consumer Products became responsible for leased telephones and manufactured telephones on January 1 , 1984 . ATTCP was absorbed into AT&T Technologies in 1989 . AT&T Consumer Products ceased operations of AT&T Phone Centers in 1995 , deciding to simply focus on sales at department stores and leasing equipment . It , along with the rest of AT&T Technologies and Bell Labs , became a part of Lucent Technologies in 1996 , following completion of its spinoff from AT&T . Lucent Technologies Consumer Products , L.P. became the new name of AT&T Consumer Products in 1996 . Its operations remained largely unchanged from its operations at AT&T . In 1997 , LTCP was placed in the unsuccessful Philips Consumer Communications joint venture . LTCP was retained after the venture failed . In 2000 , Lucent opted to reorganize its equipment units , spinning of its Networks Systems unit as Avaya , and selling off its Consumer Products unit . Its telephone leasing operation was sold to Consumer Phone Services , and its consumer telephone manufacturing division was purchased by VTech on April 2 , 2000 . Renamed VTech Innovation , L.P. , the former LTCP manufacturing division does business as Advanced American Telephones . Telephone production was abruptly shifted to China . Advanced American Telephones also entered a 10 - year licensing agreement with AT&T to use the AT&T brand on all telephones it would produce . Phones made to this day by AAT include the Trimline and the Design Line , both made famous during the days of the Bell System , along with other phones . AAT also holds the trademark rights to the Trimline & Design Line names , as well as others . 