This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia 's quality standards . Please ] improve this article ] if you can . Aerostar S.A. is an aeronautical company based in Bacău , Romania . As an autonomous entity operating in the aeronautical and defence industry , Aerostar has followed its own development course , always in the service of its main customer , the Romanian Ministry of National Defense . The evolution of the products and services supplied by the company is based on the creative and technical potential held and which has been put into value in major programmes . Aerostar supplied the repair and maintenance for all the types of aircraft in the inventory of the Romanian army . Aerostar is the matrix where the IAR - 93 prototype aircraft was made , the first fighter plane built in Romania after World War II . Not only that Aerostar preserved its initial capabilities , but it also developed them and acquired new capabilities . Such a new capability is successfully shown in the upgrade of the MiG - 21 Lancer aircraft belonging to the Romanian Air Force . Along this line of development are the upgrade programmes in the Lancer family : Mig - 21 , Mig - 21 bis , but also the upgrade demonstrator programme MiG - 29 SNIPER , as well as the modernisation of the trainer airplane YAK - 52W and YAK - 52TW . The modernisation programme LAROM is an application in the field of ground defence systems originating from the development and modification of the 40 APRA 122 FMC multiple launch rocket system . These programmes have consolidated Aerostar 's status as a repair and modernization house for military aircraft and defence systems , naturally derived from its initial profile . As integrator of complex systems Aerostar has brought new capabilities , unequaled in the Romanian aerospace industry . The identity of the company was enriched thus by enriching the core business with activities which incorporate an advanced level of technology and intelligence . The preoccupations in the field of civil aviation , which are based on a strategic decision , got materialised in the identification of the civil markets for YAK - 52 , the supply of variants specially configured for these users , the development of ultralight airplanes such as WT - 01 , the development of the own - design ultralight airplane Festival . 