Aerotek , headquartered in Hanover , Maryland , a subsidiary of Allegis Group , is a privately held staffing company with $2.3 billion in revenues in 2005 . Founded in 1983 by Steve Bisciotti and Jim Davis , the company is the top provider of engineering staffing in the United States . Aerotek also recruits , screens , selects , and places employees in the light industrial , light technical , accounting & finance , design , call center , laboratory , environmental , aviation , construction management , mortgage banking , commercial nuclear , automotive , utilities , and governmental markets . Aerotek and its subsidiaries employ 1,500 recruiters in over 170 offices in the United States and Canada . Aerotek Automotive specializes in recruiting and placing skilled technical professionals including , but not limited to : engineers , designers and drafters , technicians , and design specialists . Aerotek CE specializes in recruiting and placing skilled technical professionals in engineering , design , drafting , and technical writing positions with large aerospace , defense , medical device , architectural , engineering , electronics , and manufacturing companies . Aerotek Commercial Staffing , their largest specialized division , places general labor , clerical , light technical , and skilled trade disciplines in the manufacturing , transportation , distribution , construction , and mining industries . Aerotek E&E places high - level civil engineers and geotechnical personnel , construction management professionals , and remediation and field specialists in contract and permanent assignments within the civil / geotechnical , field service , technical , and construction industries . Aerotek Energy Services provides a specialized suite of services for recruiting and staffing for the Department of Energy and in electric services ( generation , transmission , and distribution ) , engineering services , power manufacturing , and oil and gas services . Aerotek Professional Services provides administrative and other professional staffing to the call center , mortgage banking , accounting & finance , and other professional industries . Aerotek Professional Services was formerly known as Mentor 4 . Aerotek Scientific , LLC finds and places qualified and motivated scientific professionals in the biotech , pharmaceutical , chemical , healthcare , government , consumer products , and medical device industries . Aerotek Aviation , LLC provides mechanics , technicians , engineers , and skilled specialists for both fixed and rotary wing aircraft to the commercial and cargo airlines , military , general aviation and FAA - regulated services , and manufacturing sectors . Inprax is an Aerotek strategic partner that provides contract manufacturing , distribution , and production services throughout the United States . 