Aflac Incorporated ( NYSE : AFL , TYO : 8686 ) and its subsidiaries primarily sell supplemental health and life insurance in the United States and Japan . The Company 's insurance business is marketed and administered through American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus ( Aflac ) , which operates in the United States ( Aflac U.S. ) and as a branch in Japan ( Aflac Japan ) . Most of Aflac 's policies are individually underwritten and marketed through independent agents . Insurance operations in the United States and a branch in Japan service the two markets for its insurance business . The company was founded by three brothers , John , Paul , and Bill Amos , in Columbus , Georgia in 1955 as the American Family Life Insurance Company ( not to be confused with American Family Insurance ) . In 1964 the company’s corporate name was changed to American Family Life Assurance Company , and then in 1990 the acronym was formally adopted as the company 's name . The company had 6,426 policyholders in 1956 . American Family Life pioneered cancer insurance in 1958 . Beginning in 1964 the company decided to focus sales on worksite settings . By 2003 , more than 98 % of the company 's policies in the United States were issued on a payroll - deduction basis , making the company the U.S. leader in that sales approach . In 1973 American Family Life established a holding company , the American Family Corporation . The company 's 1990 adoption of the " AFLAC " name set it apart from the many other insurance firms that include the word " American " in their names . In 2005 , the logo was changed to incorporate a duck character which is prominently featured in its advertising . In addition , the official spelling of the company name became " Aflac. " . Aflac operates in the United States and Japan ( where the term " American Family " is still used in commercials ) . Aflac 's world headquarters and corporate offices are located in an 18 - story tower east of downtown Columbus , Georgia . At the end of 2006 , the corporation 's total assets were more than $59 billion , with more than 40 million policyholders worldwide . For more than 50 years , Aflac products have given policyholders the opportunity to direct cash where it is needed most when a life - interrupting medical event causes financial challenges . Aflac is the number one provider of guaranteed - renewable insurance in the United States and the number one insurance company in terms of individual insurance policies in force in Japan . Aflac Incorporated is a Fortune 500 company listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AFL . The Aflac brand has developed wide recognition in recent times with commercials starring the famous Aflac duck ( with Gilbert Gottfried providing the voice ) on television which started airing in December of 1999 . The duck concept , as well as all of the commercials to date , were created by Tom Amico and Eric David , a creative team at The Kaplan Thaler Group , an advertising agency based in New York City . Struggling to come up with a concept to make the big but relatively obscure insurance company 's name memorable , art director Eric David stumbled upon the duck idea by walking around Central Park at lunchtime while uttering " Aflac , Aflac " and realizing how much it sounded like 