Agilent Technologies ( NYSE : A ) ( " Agilent " for short ) is a measurement and instrument company headquartered in Santa Clara , California . Agilent 's roots are at the founding of Hewlett - Packard in 1939 . All of the businesses not related to computers , storage , and imaging were spun off from HP in 1999 to form Agilent. Agilent 's spin - off was the largest initial public offering in the history of Silicon Valley . The spin - off created an $8 billion company with about 47,000 employees , manufacturing scientific instruments , semiconductors , optical networking devices , and electronic test equipment for telecom and wireless R&D and production . Some claim that Agilent , not HP , is the direct successor of the company culture invented by Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard and known as the HP Way . Agilent manufactures many products descended from HP 's original product lines . Agilent Technologies has a robust research and development program as part of Agilent Laboratories , with active research in MEMS , nanotechnology , and Life Sciences . Agilent Technologies has an active investment group , Agilent Ventures , which invests in high - tech start up companies . Investments include MEMX , Infinera , and Telasics . In 2001 , Agilent Technologies sold its healthcare and medical products organization to Philips Medical Systems . HP Medical Products had been the second oldest part of Hewlett - Packard , acquired in the 1950s . Only the original founding test and measurement organization was older . In August of 2005 , Agilent Technologies announced the sale of its Semiconductor Products Group , which produced light - emitting diodes , radio frequency and mixed - signal integrated circuits , to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. , and Silver Lake Partners . The group now operates as Avago Technologies , an independent , privately held company . Agilent also sold its 47 % stake in the light - emitting diode manufacturer Lumileds to Philips Electronics for just under $1 billion . Lumileds originally started as Hewlett - Packard 's optoelectronics division . Also in August 2005 , Agilent announced a plan to spin off its semiconductor test solutions business , composed of both the system - on - chip and memory test market areas . Agilent’s listed the new company Verigy , mid - 2006 on Nasdaq . Agilent Technologies received a 100 % rating on the Corporate Equality Index released by the Human Rights Campaign starting in 2004 , the third year of the report . 