Agile Communications is a licensed national telecommunications carrier based in South Australia and was the first South Australian based company to gain this license . The company is a sister company to ISP Internode . The company was founded by Managing Director Simon Hackett and is based in Adelaide . In May 2001 , Agile built the Coorong Network , a microwave network interlinking Adelaide , Murray Bridge , Tailem Bend , Binnies Hill , Tintinara and Meningie using Cisco based hardware . This network uses Cisco AS5400 Universal Port Hardware capable of VoIP and broadband from the same hardware . In October 2003 , Agile installed its own equipment in the Telstra exchange at Meningie , South Australia to provide ADSL to a town where Telstra was yet to provide broadband ADSL . This made it the first exchange in Australia where ADSL was available , but not through Telstra . In late 2003 , Agile began a rollout of a national network , an Optic Fibre based IP network running on STM - 1 Packet over Sonet ( POS ) links to connect all Agile POPs across Australia . The national network currently extends to Adelaide , Melbourne , Brisbane , Sydney , Perth , Canberra and Hobart . In 2005 , Agile extended their national network to the US with points of presence in Los Angeles and San Jose . Currently Telstra ( the dominant telecommunications provider in Australia ) is delegating whether or not to implement a plan which would see FTTN ( Fibre To The Node ) become a reality . The dynamics of this proposal is such that it could render Internode 's investment in its own equipment redundant . Internode along with other telecommunication providers are opposing this proposal . More recently however , Agile / Internode , along with certain other major telecommunications providers in Australia , notably Optus and Soul , have proposed a consortium - controlled FTTN network which would be co - managed with Telstra , providing ongoing fair wholesale network access with a wider coverage footprint than Telstra 's metro - only plan . In late 2006 , Agile won a contract worth AU$3.5 million to deploy broadband infrastructure through much of the Mid North region of South Australia . Cisco Systems ( 2005 - 03 - 03 ) . 