Ahlstrom is a global manufacturer of specialty papers and nonwovens , using natural and synthetic fibers to produce roll goods for customers who turn them into hundreds of products . Ahlstrom 's shares have been traded on the main list of the Helsinki Stock Exchange since March 2006 . Ahlstrom has its roots in Finland : the founder , Antti Ahlström , was one of Finland 's most prominent 19th century businessmen . Ahlstrom was started in 1908 , and originates from the family saw mill , iron and shipping business of Antti Ahlström established in 1851 . The company focused on pulp , paper and timber production and machinery , later expanding to glassworks ( Iittala ) . Ahlstrom Corporation began to rapidly grow internationally in 1963 , by acquiring a majority interest in a paper mill close to Turin , Italy , that produced filter papers and rifle cartridge paper . The town of Varkaus grew up around the A. Ahlström paper mills . In the 1930s , the Sunila Plant in Karhula ( now Kotka ) , designed by Alvar Aalto , was built by Ahlström . In the 1980s , in a large swap of facilities , the Varkaus works were handed over to Enso Gutzeit ( now Stora Enso ) . During the 1980s , Ahlstrom left the newsprint and magazine paper market and focused its operations on specialty papers . In the 1990s , Ahlstrom expanded its focus to include nonwoven products . At the end of 1996 , Ahlstrom Corporation continued its expansion by acquiring the French specialty paper and nonwovens producer Sibille - Dalle . During that same year , Ahlstrom Corporation established the Ahlstrom Paper Group to encompass the company’s fiber - based materials operations . Today , Ahlstrom is among the largest Nordic companies . The Ahlström family are still significant shareholders in the Ahlstrom Corporation . In October 2005 , Professor Johan Erik Gullichsen , chairman of Ahlstrom Corporation , was inducted into the Paper Industry International Hall of Fame for his innovations in the processing of pulp fiber suspensions at medium consistency . In April 2004 Ahlstrom and The Sonoco Corporation announced plans to combine their paperboard - core units in Europe . Ahlstrom has announced plans to move part of the operations of its facility in Mt. Holly Springs , Pennsylvania to Bishopville , South Carolina in late January or early February 2007 . About 70 jobs will be lost in Pennsylvania . 