Air France - KLM ( Euronext Paris : AF , NYSE : AKH ) is an airline company incorporated under French law with its headquarters at Roissy - Charles de Gaulle Airport near Paris . It is the largest airline company in the world in terms of total operating revenues , and the third largest in the world ( the largest in Europe ) in terms of passenger - kilometres. Air France - KLM was created by the mutually - agreed merger between Air France and Netherlands - based KLM on May 5 , 2004 . Its CEO is Jean - Cyril Spinetta , the former CEO of Air France . Private shareholders own 81.4 percent of the company ( 37 percent owned by former Air France shareholders and 21 percent owned by former KLM shareholders ) , while the French government owns the remaining 18.6 percent . As a result of the deal , the French government 's share of Air France had been reduced from 54.4 percent ( of the former Air France ) to 44 percent ( of the current Air France - KLM ) . Its share was subsequently reduced again to 25 percent , and later to 18.6 percent . The merger has thus resulted , in effect , to the privatisation of Air France . Both Air France and KLM continue to operate flights under their distinct brand names as subsidiaries of Air France - KLM . This situation may be subject to change in the future . In the fiscal year ending March 31 , 2005 , the total operating revenues of Air France - KLM amounted to 19.08 billion euros ( US$23.98 billion ) , with a net profit of 351 million euros ( US$441 million ) , a net profit increase of 20.2 percent compared to the previous year . Air France - KLM is one of the most profitable companies in Europe , in sharp contrast with American airline companies which are still experiencing great difficulties in the wake of the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks . For comparisons , American Airlines , the second largest airline in the world in terms of operating revenues , had total operating revenues of US$18.64 billion in 2004 , with a net loss of US$761 million . As of March 2005 , Air France - KLM was operating 554 aircraft . At the time of the merger in May 2004 , Air France and KLM combined offered flights to 225 destinations in the world . In the year ending March 21 , 2003 , the two companies combined transported 66.3 million passengers . Air France - KLM is member of the Skyteam airline alliance . They also offer a Frequent flyer program : Flying Blue . On October 2005 , Air France Cargo and KLM Cargo , the two freight subsidiaries of the group , announced a merge of their commercial activities . The Joint Cargo Management Team now operates the organisation worldwide from the Netherlands . Air France - KLM operations rely on two major airline hubs : Charles de Gaulle International Airport ( Roissy - Charles de Gaulle ) near Paris and Schiphol Airport near Amsterdam . Air France - KLM also holds a 2 - percent stake in the Italian flag carrier Alitalia ( November 2005 ) . The Italian Government reduced its holding in the struggling airline from 62 percent to 49 percent after a share issue which effectively meant it had surrendered control . In partnership with Dutch affiliate , Transavia , Air France is to launch 