Nutrisoda contains noartificial flavoring or coloring , zero sugar , zero sodium , zeroaspartame , and zero to few calories . Whileat Novartis , Heron spent most of his days traveling between hisnative South Africa , to Novartis headquarters in Switzerland , and hishome in Minneapolis , Minnesota . On one such flight , Heron wasseated next to a passenger with a severe cold . This sparked the idea foran immune boosting beverage to protect passengers on crowded planes.Nutrisoda is now a line of nutrient - enhanced sodas that claim to provide specific wellness benefits . There are eight flavors of Nutrisoda containing different combinations of vitamins , minerals , herbs and other nutrients that are said to help support separate aspects of wellness . IMMUNE : Tangerine and lime natural fruit flavors , 2000 mg of the amino acids L - Arginine , antioxidant Vitamins A and E , B - Vitamins , Folic Acid , and minerals Zinc , Chromium and Selenium . RADIANT : Pomegranate and blackberry natural fruit flavors , amino acids L - Lysine , L - Proline andL - Arginine , antioxidants Vitamin A , Selenium , and Green tea . Research indicates antioxidants can be effective against tissue damage and signs of premature aging . FLEX : Black cherry and apple natural fruit flavors , 600mg of Glucosamine , 300mg of Chondroitin , amino acids L - Lysine and L - Proline , Vitamins B6 &B12 , Magnesium , Zinc and Ginseng , considered , in some studies , to be anatural energy booster . SLENDER : Pink grapefruit and guava natural fruit flavors , amino acids , L - Carnitine , L - Tyrosine , Calcium , Vitamins , minerals and Super Citramax . FOCUS : Mango and peach natural fruit flavors , Ginseng , nutrients Inositol andCholine , amino acid L - Tyrosine , and specially selected B - Vitamins , Vitamins C , E and Magnesium . CALM : Wild berry and citron natural fruit flavors , nutrients of Choline andInositol , B - Vitamins and Folic Acid plus Chamomile , considered to be anatural remedy for stress and tension . ENERGIZE : Mandarin and mint natural flavors , amino acids L - Tyrosine andL - Carnitine , herbs such as Ginseng , and Guarana seed extract , B - Vitamins , Taurine , and Magnesium . Energize is the only flavor of Nutrisoda to contain caffeine . RENEW : Watermelon and blueberry natural flavors , with one gram offiber per serving and amino acids L - Arginine and L - Glutamine . Theseingredients are said to support intestinal health and the immune system . Ardea Beverage Company revised Nutrisoda formulations at the beginning of 2006 to omit the use of some herbs , while retaining certain nutrients such as vitamins , minerals and amino acids . All herbs and nutrients used in the eight flavors of Nutrisoda are approved by the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) and are considered GRAS ( Generally Recognized As Safe ) approved . ENERGIZE , CALM , FOCUS and RADIANT removed Rhodiola Rosea Extract from their formulations . Chromium ( tradename Chromax ) was added to ENERGIZE , IMMUNE and SLENDER , while additional amounts of the B vitamin , Inositol , were increased in both CALM and FOCUS . Ashwagandha extract ( tradename Essentra ) as found in CALM , and additional amounts of L - Lysine and L - Proline , as found in RADIANT , were also added during these redesigns . One flavor of Nutrisoda , RENEW , 