AK Steel Holding Corporation , formerly known as Armco , is a major American steel company founded in 1900 as the American Rolling Mills Corporation . With 2005 revenues of US$5 billion , it is on the list of the 500 largest companies from Fortune Magazine . Today the company is situated in Middletown , Ohio athough on February 20 , 2007 the company announced that they would be moving their headquarters to West Chester , Ohio . The move should be complete by the third quarter of 2007 . AK Steel 's main products are carbon , stainless and electrical steels , cold rolled and aluminium coated stainless steel for automakers . One of AK Steel 's best - known products may be the Armco barriers installed around many auto - racing tracks , particularly in Formula One . These barriers were commonly called simply " Armco. " . Reports of Formula - One races frequently include a statement like " his steering - link broke , which sent him into the Armco. " . The company has production facilities in a number of American cities including : Middletown , Ohio , Ashland , Kentucky , Zanesville , Ohio , Mansfield , Ohio , Butler , Pennsylvania and Rockport , Indiana as well having production facilities in Canada , Mexico and Western Europe . On February 28 , 2006 , AK Steel began a Lockout of Armco Employees Independent Federation ( AEIF ) , an employee union , at their Middletown Works plant , in Middletown , Ohio . This lockout is already the longest labor stalemate in the 105 - year history of the Middletown Works . The previous longest stalemate was a five - day company lockout in 1986 . By the next day , the mill was operated by 1,800 salaried and temporary replacement workers . In late October , AK offered a " final " contract , which was beaten down by the union at a vote of 2 to 1 . One year after the lockout started , on February 28 , 2007 , AK Steel reached a tentative labor deal with the labor union , and the lockout is over if the union members ratify the proposed contract . 