Akai ( Akai Electric Company , Ltd. traditional Chinese : 雅佳 ) was a Japanese consumer electronics producer founded in 1929.It is now headquartered in Singapore and part of Grande Holdings , a Chinese Hong Kong - based conglomerate , who also owns Japanese brands Nakamichi and Sansui . It is now used on rebadged electronics manufactured by other companies . The manufacturer 's most notable products were reel - to - reel ( most notably , the GX series ) audiotape recorders , tuners , audio cassette decks , amplifiers , video recorders , and loudspeakers . Many Akai products were sold under the name Roberts in the US , as well as A&D in Japan . In late sixties , along with Tandberg , Akai has pioneered Cross - Field recording ( using extra head ) , which facilitated high frequency recording . Later they switched to Glass - ferrite epitaXial ( GX ) heads , famous for reliability . The most famous open - reel models are GX - 747 , GX - 77 ( unique model with auto - loading ) . Prominent cassette decks included three - head , closed - loop GX - F95 , GX - 9 , GX - R99 . The company limited its consumer Hi - Fi product line in the United States in the 1990s . Akai was a leading brand of video cassette recorder in the 1980s . The Akai VS - 2 was the first VCR manufactured to have an on - screen display , which was originally named the Interactive Monitor System . This innovation eliminated the need for the user to be physically near the VCR to program it to automatically record TV programs , tune in TV stations , read the tape counter and other common features by displaying the information on the television screen . It took several years for competing manufacturers to adapt on - screen display technology to their own products . In 1984 a new division of the company was formed focusing on the manufacture and sale of electronic instruments , known Akai Electronic Musical Instruments Corporation , or Akai Professional . The first product released by the new subsidiary , the S612 12 - bit digital sampler , was the first in a series of affordable samplers . It held only a single sample at a time , which was loaded into memory via a separate disk drive that utilized proprietary 2.8 " floppy disks . The maximum sample time at the highest quality sampling rate ( 32kHz ) was one second . The X - 7000 , a keyboard version of the S612 , was introduced shortly thereafter . Unlike the single - sample S - 612 , however , it allowed the user to have six samples active at a time . Some of their other early products include the Akai AX - 80 8 - voice analog synthesizer , and the Akai AX - 60 and AX - 73 6 - voice analog synthesizers . The AX - 60 borrowed many ideas from the Roland Juno - 106 , but used a real VCO , and had the ability to have a split keyboard . The S612 was superseded in 1986 with the introduction of a " professional " range of digital samplers , starting with the 12 - bit S900 in late 1985 , the 16 - bit S1000 in 1988 , and the S3000 , which notably featured writable CD - ROM and hard disk recording . An additional release of note were the 