Akzo Nobel is a multinational company , active in the fields of healthcare products , coatings and chemicals . Headquartered in Arnhem , the Netherlands , the company has activities in more than 80 countries , and employs approximately 62,000 people . Sales in 2005 were EUR 13 billion , of which 27 % in Pharma products , 43 % in Coatings , and 30 % in Chemicals products . Akzo Nobel consists of fifteen business units , with business responsibility and autonomy . For managerial purpose these cooperate in three groups , which are supported by one managerial board . The Board of Management ( BOM ) of Akzo Nobel consists of four people , viz . Chairman and CEO since 2003 Hans Wijers , CFO Rob Frohn , and members Toon Wilderbeek and Leif Darner . The board holds office on the Akzo Nobel site in Arnhem , the Netherlands . In January 2007 the company it will move headquarters to the Amsterdam Zuidas location in July 2007 . Intervet for animal healthcare . At the beginning of 2006 , it was announced that Akzo Nobel intents to start an initial public offering for these business units , under the name of Organon BioSciences . Products developed by the Pharma businesses include contraceptives ( e.g. , NuvaRing® ) , antidepressants ( e.g. , Remeron SolTab® ) , infertility treatments ( e.g. , Puregon® / Follistim® ) and veterinary vaccines ( e.g. , Nobivac® dog and cat vaccines ; Equilis horse vaccines ) . Akzo Nobel is the world 's leading coatings company with key products paints , services and specialized equipment for the car repair and transportation market . The brands it manufactures include Sikkens® , International® , Interpon® , Casco® , Nordsjö® , Sadolin® , Taubmans® and Crown® . These products were used on London 's Millennium Wheel , La Scala Opera House in Milan , the Öresund Bridge between Denmark and Sweden , and Stadium Australia in Sydney . Following a 2005 reorganization , the chemicals group now consists of five business units . As chemicals producer , Akzo Nobel is a world 's leading salt specialist , chlor - alkali products , and other industrial chemicals . Ultimately , Akzo Nobel products are found in everyday items such as paper , ice cream , bakery goods , cosmetics , plastics and glass . Each BU has an annual turnover of approx EUR 600 million . 1777 Danish paints company founded by Jacob Holmblad , later operating as Holmblad & Co . 1994 AKZO merges with Nobel Industries , forming Akzo Nobel . The new Akzo Nobel has 20 business entities . Bofors continues as a separate entity . 1998 Akzo Nobel acquires Courtaulds of the UK , a leading international chemical company which has leading positions in high - tech industrial coatings and man - made fibers . EU forces sale of Aeronautical films and sealants businesses to allow completion . 1999 Akzo Nobel divests its Fibers Group ' Acordis ' to CVC Capital Partners . 2004 Catalyst business sold to Albemarle Corp. and Coatings Resins business divested to Nuplex Industries . 2006 Akzo Nobel acquires the quoted Canadian Coatings company SICO Inc . 