The Al - Muhaidib Group ( Arabic : مجموعة شركات عبدالقادر المهيدب و اولاده ) is an international private group of companies based in Saudi Arabia that was founded in 1946 by Sheikh Abdul Kadir bin Abdul Muhsin Al - Muhaidib . The current Chairman of the Board of Directors is Sulaiman A. K. Al - Muhaidib . 2.2.8 Al - Muhaidib Contracting Co . The first company was founded in 1946 under the name Abdulatif and Abdulkadir Al - Muhaidib Company . Its main interest was selling wholesale building materials and foodstuffs . In 1959 the company name was changed to Al - Muhaidib and Al - Nafea Company , and in 1979 it was changed again to A.K Al - Muhaidib & Sons Group of Companies . A.K. Al - Muhaidib & Sons group of companies began its life in the food products industry in 1959 , marketing and distributing rice . Although this sector has remained the fastest - growing within the group , allowing the company to expand its portfolio to include other grains and eventually leading to the establishment of a retail outlet chain , Giant Stores , the group relates its overall success to diversification . By maintaining a presence in various independent economic sectors , the company is assured that industries on the rise will carry any sector that may not be doing so robustly . The group’s other main interest , building materials , has thrived along with Saudi Arabia’s economic and industrial development . An eye for the right opportunity and the right partner with which to do business are central to the group’s success , and this is down to careful selection of managers . Indeed , human resources are a priority at Al - Muhaidib , a fact that is reflected in the low staff turnover . Sulaiman Al - Muhaidib , the group’s chairman , is keen to acquire more partners from the U.S. “With the growth of opportunities here , the Saudis are calling out to the Americans . Every Saudi would like to work with Americans because they think big , ” he says . Today the group stands as one of the leading companies in Saudi Arabia and the Middle East . Al - Muhaidib Metal Industries Company was established in 1982 . Today , the company is appropriately positioned in the metal industries sector , with five factories operating in an area of 50,000 square meters in the industrial estate of Riyadh creating reinforcement steel , fabricated steel , building products , steel doors and other steel , aluminum and other metal products . Over the past years , the company has achieved tremendous success in local and international markets . The company has concluded several transactions with the Gulf Cooperation Council and other Arab and African countries . The company was incorporated in 1988 , and since then the company has grown and become a leading timber industry company in Saudi Arabia . The company’s factory was built in Riyadh on an area of 24,500 square meters which included various types of wood products . Another factory is specialized in producing tailor - made standard products such as doors , cabinets , timber blocks , roofs and other wood products . Plastic - laminated kitchen units are also designed and produced for the construction sector . Other supplementary products are also manufactured . The third production unit is specialized in custom - made furniture , traditional design and handiwork . The manufacture of the traditional Najd style furniture is an exclusive to the 