A typical Albertsons store . Albertsons ( officially New Albertson 's , Inc. ) , a wholly owned subsidiary of Eden Prairie , Minnesota - based Supervalu , is a supermarket retailer that , at its peak , operated more than 2,500 grocery stores and 700 drug stores under several names in 37 U.S. states with approximately 230,000 associates . Supervalu granted Cerberus a license to continue to operate Cerberus - owned stores under the Albertsons banner . It was ranked number four in sales by Supermarket News — behind Wal - Mart , Kroger and Costco , with only Kroger having more stores . Albertsons was founded by Joe Albertson in 1939 in Boise , Idaho . An ad in the Idaho Statesman newspaper touted Joe Albertson 's first store as " Idaho 's largest and finest food store. " . The store was filled with perquisites that , at the time , were brand new : free parking , a money - back guarantee , even an ice cream shop . The store was located at 17th and State Streets , a few blocks north of downtown Boise . Joe Albertson 's grocery store was an enormous success , and he plowed his profits back into the business . New stores were opened in neighboring towns to the west , Nampa , Caldwell , and Emmett , before Pearl Harbor in late 1941 . The company grew steadily in the years following World War II . When Joe Albertson was considering putting a new store in a town , he would drive around the town and look for neighborhoods with lots of children 's clothing hanging on clotheslines ; he knew that those kinds of neighborhoods were where he wanted to build his stores . Albertsons , Inc. became a public company in 1959 , and its growth continued ; in 1964 , Joe opened his 100th store , in Seattle . In 1966 , Albertsons expanded to southern California by acquiring All American Stores , a small chain in Orange County . In 1969 , Albertsons partnered with Skaggs Companies , Inc. to create the first combination grocery / drug stores . The partnership was a tremendous success , and was dissolved amicably in 1977 , with Skaggs keeping stores in Texas , Oklahoma , and Arkansas , and Albertsons keeping stores in Florida , Alabama , and Louisiana , as well as some Texas stores . Albertsons added three Skaggs Alpha Beta stores in Austin within months after entering that market in early 1989 with the acquisition of six Tom Thumb Food & Pharmacy stores . In 1992 , seventy - four of the remaining Skaggs stores ( having been through several names under Skaggs / American Stores control , first " Skaggs SuperCenters " , then " Skaggs Alpha Beta , and finally " Jewel - Osco " ) in Oklahoma , Florida , Arkansas , and Texas were acquired by Albertsons from Skaggs / American Stores , including all 53 Jewel - Osco stores in Texas . Albertson 's would increase its store count in the Dallas - Fort Worth area by adding 41 Jewel - Osco stores to its 19 stores already in operation . The Skaggs acquisition was a success , and the new stores were smoothly integrated into Albertsons ' Texas division . The ease of that acquisition and Albertsons ' high - flying stock price led Albertsons to attempt expansion on a grand scale . In a series of acquisitions in the late 1990s , Albertsons acquired Seessel 's in 