Alcatel SA was a global company , headquartered in France that provided hardware , software and services to telecommunications service providers and enterprises . Alcatel sells equipment for mobile and fixed voice communication networks , data networks and television and video delivery . Moreover it features a Transport Solutions Division that sells railway signalling equipment and automatic train protection systems for urban and mainline railways . Alcatel became Alcatel - Lucent after its merge with Lucent Technogies on December 1st , 2006 . It was mostly well known for its ADSL multiplexers , used for high - speed Internet access , and had over one - third of the world DSLAM market in 2005 . It has a partnership with Microsoft as of 2004 to provide IPTV services via its TPSDA ( Triple Play Services Delivery Architecture ) over DSL and using its 7x50 VPLS / MPLS routers and switches to service providers such as AT&T in the United States . It is also a leading provider of optical transmission equipment , especially for submarine communications cable . Genesys , a U.S. subsidiary , is a leading provider of call centre software . Alcatel was also the world leader in point - to - point microwave radios and wireless transmission ; with over 50 years expertise and over 17 % of the global market share in 2005 . It has a field - proven experience in deploying and managing wireless transmission networks and 2G , 2.5G , and 3G mobile backhauling . Alcatel has several notable non - network - based businesses . For example , Alcatel Space is a leading builder of satellite systems with its Geosynchronous spacecraft platform , Spacebus 3000 and 4000 , and its LEO spacecraft platform , Proteus . It also has a Transport Solutions division that provides routing , control and network management for railway and mass transit operators , such as city undergrounds in Berlin , London and New York . Headquartered in Paris ( France ) , rue de la Boétie , with significant operations in and around Paris , Alcatel has a long history beginning in 1898 with the founding of Compagnie Générale d'Electricité ( CGE ) . The original home of the company was the Alsace region and it still maintains R&D operations in the Strasbourg area . In 1991 CGE changed its name to Alcatel Alsthom , and in 1998 to Alcatel . There were a number of mergers and acquisitions , as well as divestments since 1898 . To understand the current company and its focus on telecommunications , the most important were the acquisition of the European telecommunications activities of ITT in 1986 . The combined companies were called Alcatel Alsthom . Alcatel maintains significant R&D presence in France ( Paris region , Brittany , South of France ) , Antwerp ( Belgium ) , at the former ITT operations there ( Bell Telephone ) , in Stuttgart ( Germany ) , in Italy ( Vimercate , Genoa , Rieti , Battipaglia ) , in India ( Gurgaon , NOIDA and Chennai ) , since 2000 in Shanghai ( China ) and since 2005 in Saint - Petersburg ( Russia ) . Since 1990 , various North American companies were acquired – Spatial Wireless , Rockwell Technologies , DSC Communications , Xylan , Packet Engines , Assured Access , Newbridge , iMagicTV , TiMetra , and eDial – giving Alcatel a strong U.S. and Canadian presence . Alcatel has its North American headquarters in Plano , Texas , and R&D operations in Ottawa , Mountain View , 