Alcan Inc. is Canada 's largest aluminum company and the world 's third largest , behind its former parent Alcoa ( from which it split in 1928 ) and Rusal ( however Alcan is largest by sales ) . Alcoa announced a hostile take over bid for its progeny on May 7th , 2007 , in a deal worth $27 billion USD . The acquisition is expected to face significant political and anti - trust scrutiny . The combined companies would form the largest aluminum producer in the world . On May 22 , 2007 , Alcan 's Board of Directors unanimously recommended that shareholders reject Alcoa Inc . ’s unsolicited offer to acquire Alcan . The Board determined that the offer is inadequate in multiple respects and is contrary to the best interests of Alcan’s shareholders . Founded in 1902 as the Canadian unit of Alcoa , it was spun off in 1928 . From 1935 to 1945 , the use of Aluminum in Alcan 's name was being disputed by Alcoa , but a decision by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals ended the legality of the company 's name . In 1982 the company acquired the British Aluminium Company , renaming the operation British Alcan . In 1999 , Alcan made a failed attempt to make a three - way merger between it and algroup ( Alusuisse Lonza Group ) of Switzerland and Pechiney of France . The proposed merger was blocked by the European Commission due to fears of anti - competition . After the deal fell through , Alcan acquired algroup in 2000 . Then in 2003 , Alcan acquired Pechiney , completing the original three - way merger plan of 1999 . Alcan owns , operates or has an interest in six bauxite mines and deposits , five smelter - grade alumina refineries and six specialty aluminas plants . Its Bauxite & Alumina group refines bauxite ore into smelter - grade alumina for Alcan’s Primary Metal group and external customers and specialty - grade alumina for third parties . It also owns an extensive transportation network , including trucking , rail , marine shipping and port facilities worldwide . Alcan Primary Metal group includes Alcan’s aluminum smelting facilities and power generation installations , smelting technology and equipment sales , engineering services and aluminum trading operations , anode and cathode production facilities and aluminum fluoride plants . Alcan owns or has an interest in 22 smelters in 11 countries and regions . Alcan’s proprietary AP technology delivers the lowest full economic cost , which is why it is the technology of choice for the world’s aluminum producers . Alcan’s Engineered Products group serves the aerospace , automotive , mass transportation , marine , building , electrical , beverage can packaging markets . Alcan is the No. 1 supplier to Europe’s aerospace industry and No. 2 worldwide . It is the premier provider of large profile extrusions to Europe’s transportation industry , Europe’s No. 1 supplier of beverage can stock , a North American leader in aluminum cable , and a world leader in composites with a unique portfolio of brands and innovative product solutions . Alcan is also a global strategic partner in the development of safer , lighter and more fuel - efficient automobiles . Its 120 production facilities , service centres and International Network offices are present in 32 countries and regions . Its products include engineered shaped products and structures , cable , wire and rod , as well as a very complete array of composite materials and balsa wood . 