Alcoa ( NYSE : AA ) is the world’s second largest producer of aluminum , behind Rusal after a Russian controlled merger . Alcoa leads the world in alumina production and capacity . From its operational headquarters in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , Alcoa oversees operations in 43 countries . It is followed closely by a former subsidiary , Alcan , a Canadian - based company in Montreal , who is the third - leading producer behind Alcoa , but in terms of sales Alcan is ahead of Alcoa . Alcoa made a hostile $27 billion bid for Alcan on May 7th , 2007 , aiming to reunite the two companies and form the largest aluminum producer in the world . The takeover bid is expected to be politically contentious . In addition to aluminum products , Alcoa also makes and markets consumer brands including Reynolds Wrap foil and plastic wrap , Baco household wraps , and Alcoa wheels . Among Alcoa’s other businesses are vinyl siding , closures , fastening systems , Howmet Castings , and electrical distribution systems for cars . The packaging unit , including the Reynolds Metals subsidiary , is expected to be spun off to satisfy antitrust regulators , in response to the proposed Alcan takeover . In 1886 , Charles Martin Hall , a graduate of Ohio’s Oberlin College , discovered the process of smelting aluminium , almost simultaneously with Paul Héroult in France . He realized that by passing an electrical current through a bath of cryolite and aluminum oxide , the then semi - rare metal aluminum remained as a byproduct . This discovery , now called the Hall - Héroult process , is still used by Alcoa to produce aluminum . With the help of financial backers , Hall started the Pittsburgh Reduction Company , which changed its name to Aluminum Company of America in 1907 . The acronym " Alcoa " was coined in 1910 , given as a name to two of the locales where major corporate facilities were located ( although one of these has since been changed ) , and in 1999 was adopted as the official corporate name . Until 1950 , Alcoa was concerned with its domestic market , while its Canadian subsidiary Aluminum Limited ( Alcan ) took care of the international markets . From 1937 to 1957 it was under stricter than normal governmental supervsion , pending a final verdict in the U.S. vs Alcoa antitrust case . Alcoa 's monopoly was effectively ended by the disposal of Defense Corporation Plants after WWII by the War Assets Administration . This enabled Reynolds Metals Company and Kaiser Chemicals to become fully integrated producers of primary aluminum . They were soon joined by Anaconda Aluminum Company , a subsidiary of the copper - industry giant . In 1958 Harvey Machine Tools Company began primary aluminum production , marking the end of Alcoa 's monopoly over the process which had led to its domination of the American market . Noted economist and former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan criticized the judgment of monopoly against Alcoa ( Capitalism : The Unknown Ideal ; see ) quotes Learned Hand , the judge in U.S. v Alcoa , who remarked , " It was not inevitable that it should always anticipate increases in the demand for ingot and be prepared to supply them . Nothing compelled it to keep doubling and redoubling its capacity before others entered the field . It insists that it never excluded competitors ; but we can think of no more effective exclusion than progressively to 