ALDI ( help·info ) , short for " ALbrecht DIscount " , is a discount supermarket chain based in Germany and one of the largest retail chains in its home market . The chain is made up of two separate groups , ALDI Nord ( operating as ALDI MARKT ) and ALDI Süd ( operating as ALDI SÜD ) , which operate independently from each other in specific market boundaries . The individual groups were originally owned and managed by brothers Karl Albrecht and Theo Albrecht , both have since retired . However , they are still Germany 's richest men , earning an estimated € 1.5 billion per year . Aldi 's German operations currently consist of Aldi Nord 's 35 individual regional companies with about 2,500 stores in Northern and Eastern Germany , and Aldi Süd 's 31 regional companies with 1,600 stores in Western and Southern Germany . Aldi 's main competitor , nationally and internationally , is Lidl . Earliest roots of the company trace back to 1913 , when the mother of Karl and Theo Albrecht opened a small store in Essen - Schonnebeck . Their father was employed as a miner and later as a baker’s assistant . Karl was born in 1920 , Theo in 1922 . Theo completed an apprenticeship in his mother’s store , while Karl worked in a delicatessen . In the 1920s , Karl took over a food shop formerly run by F. W. Judt who already advertised to be the " cheapest food source " . Karl also served in the German Army during World War II . After the end of World War II , the brothers took over their mother’s business ( 1946 ) and soon opened another retail outlet in the vicinity . By 1950 , the Albrecht brothers already owned 13 stores in the Ruhr valley . The brothers ' idea , which was new at the time , was to subtract the then - legal maximum rebate of 3 % before sale . The market leaders at the time , which often were co - operatives , required their customers to collect rebate stamps , and to send them in in regular intervals to claim their money back . The Albrecht brothers also rigorously removed merchandise that did not sell from their shelves , and squeezed out as much savings as possible by not advertising , not selling fresh produce , and keeping the size of their retail outlets as small as possible . When the two brothers split the company in 1960 over a dispute whether they should sell cigarettes at the till or not , they owned 300 shops with a cash flow of DM 90 million German mark per year . In 1962 , they introduced the Aldi brand name . The Albrecht brothers retreated from their positions as CEOs in 1993 and gave most of their wealth to foundations . Aldi specialises in staple items such as food , beverages , sanitary articles and other inexpensive household items . Many of its products are own - brand labelled , with the number of outside brands being very limited , usually no more than two different brands for one kind of product and often only one . This increases the numbers of sales for each article and also allows Aldi stores to be smaller than supermarkets which cover the same range of products but with more diversity . Also it allowed Aldi to avoid the use of price tags even before the introduction of barcode scanners ( see below ) 