Alenia Aermacchi is a leading company in the design and production of trainers for military pilots . Alenia Aermacchi is able to offer a wide range of products that meet the requirements of all training phases : primary , basic and lead - in fighter . Alenia Aermacchi has thus far sold about 2,000 trainers to more than 40 countries and has collaborated in major international military programs . The experience gained in the military sector has also allowed the company to extend its business to the civil aviation field , which currently accounts for 35 % of its turnover . In July 2003 Alenia Aermacchi was integrated into the Finmeccanica Group , which increased its shareholding to 99 % . The company 's facilities are located at Venegono Superiore ( Varese province ) . Its workforce totals about 1800 and plants occupy a total area of approx . Facilities include laboratories and workshops for structural tests and a wind and a water tunnel in addition to an airfield for flight test activities . Alenia Aermacchi has always designed and developed its aircraft autonomously thanks to its highly qualified personnel and cutting edge technologies . Since the beginning , the design and production of military trainers have been Alenia Aermacchi 's core business . AMX ProgramAlenia Aermacchi takes part in the AMX program with Alenia Aeronautica and Embraer of Brazil with a total share of 24 % . Mid - Life Updating program is required by the Italian Air Force to upgrade the aircraft capabilities . Panavia TornadoProgramFor Panavia Tornado , Alenia Aermacchi designs and produces wing pylons and wing tips , roots , trailing edges and flaps , which represent a 5 % share in the overall program . Eurofighter ProgramIn the Eurofighter program , Alenia Aermacchi has a share exceeding 4 % in , for the design and development of wing pylons , twin missile and twin store carriers , ECM pods , carbon fiber structures and titanium engine cowlings . C - 27J ProgramAfter participating in the G - 222 transport aircraft program , the company is currently involved in the new Military Transport Aircraft C - 27J Spartan , for the production of outer wings . Since the mid ' 90s , Alenia Aermacchi has participated in various programs concerning the supply of engine nacelles for civil aircraft . Its design and technological capabilities have permitted the company to produce cold parts for engine nacelles : inlets , fan cowls and EBU , the systems - to - engine interface . In 1999 , Alenia Aermacchi established a joint venture ( MHD ) with Hurel - Dubois ( presently Hurel - Hispano , of SNECMA group ) , a French company specialized in the development and manufacture of thrust reversers , to obtain the full responsibility for the development of nacelles installed on max . Soon after World War II had ended it was decided to start peacetime production with a three - wheeler truck . This was an unorthodox but very good design . Then , anticipating the motor cycle boom and intending to have a stake in it , the Aermacchi chief’s looked for a good designer who could produce an attractive lightweight . Their choice was Lino Tonti , who had been at Benelli and had worked on aircraft engines during the war . Tonti designed a 50 cc motorcycle that broke the land speed record for the displacement . In the 1960s Aermacchi joined in a venture with Harley - Davidson to produce small bikes for the American manufacturer . Aermacchi went 