Alexa Internet , Inc. is a California - based subsidiary company of Amazon.com that is best known for operating a website that provides information on the web traffic to other websites . Alexa collects information from users who have installed an " Alexa Toolbar , " allowing them to provide statistics on web site traffic , as well as lists of related links . Alexa Internet was founded in 1996 by Brewster Kahle and Bruce Gilliat . The company offered a toolbar that gave Internet users guidance on where to go next , based on the traffic patterns of its user community . Alexa also offered context for each site visited : to whom it was registered , how many pages it had , how many other sites pointed to it , and how frequently it was updated . Engineers at Alexa , in cooperation with the Internet Archive , created the Internet Archive 's Wayback Machine . Alexa also supplies the Internet Archive with web crawls . In 1999 , Alexa was acquired by Amazon.com for about $250 million in Amazon stock . The company 's premises are in Building 37 of the Presidio of San Francisco . Alexa began a partnership with Google in spring 2002 , and with the Open Directory Project in January 2003 . Windows Live Search replaced Google as a provider of search results in May 2006 . In September 2006 , they began using their own Search Platform to serve results . In December 2006 , they released Alexa Image Search . Built in - house , it is the first major application to be built on their Web Platform . Today , Alexa is primarily a search engine , an Open Directory - based web directory , and a supplier of site information . Alexa also provides " site info " for the A9.com search engine . In December 2005 , Alexa opened its extensive search index and web - crawling facilities to third party programs through a comprehensive set of web services and APIs . These could be used , for instance , to construct vertical search engines that could run on Alexa 's own servers or elsewhere . Uniquely , their Web Search Platform gives developers access to their raw crawl data . In May 2007 , Alexa changed their API to require comparisons be limited to 3 sites , reduced size embedded graphs be shown using Flash , and mandatory embedded BritePic ads . In April 2007 , Alexa v. Hornbaker was filed to stop trademark infringement by the statsaholic service . In the lawsuit , Alexa alleges that Hornbaker is stealing traffic graphs for profit , and that the primary purpose of his site is to display graphs that are generated by Alexa 's servers . Hornbaker removed the term Alexa from his service name on March 19 2007 . Alexa ranks sites based on visits from users of its Alexa Toolbar for Internet Explorer and from integrated sidebars in Mozilla and Netscape . There are several third - party extensions for Mozilla Firefox ; these extensions do affect Alexa website rankings . About This Site Firefox plug - in that shows metadata from Alexa TrafficRank . There is some controversy over how representative Alexa 's user base is of typical Internet behavior . If Alexa 's user base is a fair statistical sample of the internet user population ( e.g. , a random sample of sufficient size ) , Alexa 's ranking should be quite accurate ( see Sampling ) . In reality , not much is 