Alfa Romeo is an Italian automobile manufacturer founded in 1910 . Alfa Romeo has been a part of the Fiat Group since 1986 . The company was originally known as A.L.F.A. , which is an acronym for Anonima Lombarda Fabbrica Automobili ( translated : Lombard Automobile Factory , Public Company ) . The company that became Alfa Romeo was founded as Società Anonima Italiana Darracq ( SAID ) in 1906 by Cavaliere Ugo Stella , an aristocrat from Milan , in partnership with the French automobile firm of Alexandre Darracq . The firm initially produced Darracq cars in Naples , but after the partnership collapsed Stella and the other Italian co - investors moved production to an idle Darracq factory in the Milan suburb of Portello , and the company was renamed A.L.F.A. ( Anonima Lombarda Fabbrica Automobili ) . The first non - Darracq car produced by company was the 1910 24 HP , designed by Giuseppe Merosi . Merosi would go on to design a series of new ALFA cars with more powerful engines ( 40 - 60 HP ) . ALFA also ventured into motor racing , drivers Franchini and Ronzoni competing in the 1911 Targa Florio with two 24 HP models . However , the onset of World War I halted automobile production at ALFA for three years . 1916 saw the company come under the direction of Neapolitan entrepreneur Nicola Romeo , who converted the factory to produce military hardware for the Italian and Allied war efforts . Munitions , aircraft engines and other components , compressors and generators based on the company 's existing car engines , and heavy locomotives were produced in the factory during the war . When the war was over , Romeo took complete control of ALFA and car production resumed in 1919 . In 1920 , the name of the company was changed to Alfa Romeo with the Torpedo 20 - 30 HP becoming the first car to be badged as such . Giuseppe Merosi continued as head designer , and the company continued to produce solid road cars as well as successful race cars ( including the 40 - 60 HP and the RL Targa Florio ) . In 1923 Vittorio Jano was lured away from Fiat , partly thanks to the persuasion of a young Alfa racing driver named Enzo Ferrari , to replace Merosi as chief designer at Alfa Romeo . The first Alfa Romeo under Jano was the P2 Grand Prix car , which won Alfa Romeo the inaugural world championship for Grand Prix cars in 1925 . For Alfa road cars Jano developed a series of small - to - medium - displacement 4 , 6 , and 8 cylinder inline power plants based on the P2 unit that established the classic architecture of Alfa engines , with light alloy construction , hemispherical combustion chambers , centrally - located plugs , two rows of overhead valves per cylinder bank and dual overhead cams . Jano 's designs proved to be both reliable and powerful . Enzo Ferrari proved to be a better team manager than driver , and when the factory team was privatised , it then became Scuderia Ferrari . When Ferrari left Alfa Romeo , he went on to build his own cars . Tazio Nuvolari often drove for Alfa , winning many races prior to WWII . In 1928 Nicola Romeo left , with Alfa going broke after defense contracts ended , and in the end of 1932 Alfa Romeo was rescued by the government , which then had effective control 