Bell Aliant Regional Communications is a communications company providing services primarily in rural areas throughout eastern Canada , as Aliant in Atlantic Canada and as Bell in central Canada . It is publicly traded through the Bell Aliant Regional Communications Income Fund ( TSX : BA.UN ) , an income trust . Bell Canada presently owns about 45 % of the group and exercises management control . Fund units representing about 28.5 % of Bell Aliant were distributed to shareholders of Bell 's parent company , BCE . Shareholders of the former Aliant Inc. received units representing 26.5 % of the firm . The current firm is the successor to Aliant Inc. , formed from the 1999 merger of Maritime Telephone and Telegraph Company ( MTT ) , Island Telecom , Bruncor ( parent of NBTel ) , and NewTel Enterprises ( parent of NewTel Communications ) , then the four main incumbent telephone companies in Nova Scotia , Prince Edward Island , New Brunswick and Newfoundland and Labrador respectively . Aliant was approximately 53 % owned by Bell Canada . On March 7 , 2006 , Bell and Aliant announced plans to merge Aliant 's operations into those of Bell . Specifically , Aliant 's " high growth " wireless and retail ( DownEast ) networks would be folded into Bell 's wholly owned Bell Mobility and Bell World operations , respectively . Aliant , under a new income trust structure , would acquire Bell 's " regional " landline operations ( i.e. outside of major city centres ) in Ontario and Quebec . The transaction was completed on July 7 , 2006 , and saw the appointment of Stephen Wetmore , formerly of Bell , as President and CEO . The purpose was to separate out the more stable ( or low - growth ) parts of Bell 's holdings , i.e. wireline operations in markets with relatively little competition , to satisfy investors . The restructuring is not expected to have any effect on end consumers in terms of existing pricing or bundling practices . Meanwhile , Bell Canada proper continues to have full control over its wireless and satellite / cable operations throughout Canada , as well as wireline operations in major centres such as Toronto , Ottawa , Montreal , and surrounding areas . Bell Aliant has also assumed Bell 's 63.4 % interests in both NorthernTel and Télébec , the remainder in both cases being owned by the Bell Nordiq Income Fund . Both firms continue to operate their own wireless networks . Until 1999 , Aliant Communications was the name of a small telephone company serving Lincoln , Nebraska and area , which was acquired that year by Alltel . Following this acquisition , Aliant Communications adopted the Alltel brand and transferred its rights in the Aliant name to the then - new Canadian entity . Maritime Centre , Aliant 's Halifax office . Currently , the company operates as " Aliant " in Atlantic Canada and as " Bell " in Ontario and Quebec . Similarly , the former Aliant wireless and retail networks continue to use the " Aliant " brand in Atlantic Canada , albeit now under the direct control of Bell . In Atlantic Canada , Aliant 's services include high - speed and dial - up internet access , wireline telephone service , and IPTV cable television . Its main rivals are the region 's incumbent cable providers - EastLink ( N.S. / P.E.I. ) , Rogers Communications ( N.B. / N.L. ) , and Persona ( rural 