Alienware is an American computer hardware company and a wholly - owned subsidiary of Dell Computer Corporation . It has a reputation for offering the latest technologies for desktops and laptops that are specialized for video editing , audio editing , and especially gaming . The company is based in Miami , Florida , and was founded in 1995 by its current CEO , Nelson Gonzalez , and COO , Alex Aguila . Established in 1996 , Alienware manufactures high - performance desktop , notebook , media center , and professional systems . Operating under the tagline of “build it as if it were your own , ” Alienware has earned numerous awards for excellence and has become a respected brand name worldwide with systems available direct within the United States , Europe , Australia , and New Zealand . According to employees , the Alienware name was chosen because of the founders ' fondness for the hit television series The X - Files , hence the theme to their products , with names such as Grey and Area - 51 . Alienware was originally established to tap a niche in the high performance game market , which back then was not on the radar of the major PC manufacturers such as Dell . Since high - end game hardware was not widely distributed , the company 's founders formed an OEM that sold personal computers with the highest performing hardware and settings according to benchmarks . As of FY 2005 , Alienware brought in upwards of $170 million USD in annual sales , while trimming expenses to aid an international expansion initiative launched in 2003 to maintain a presence in Australia , Canada , France , Germany , United Kingdom and Costa Rica . In 2002 , Alienware distributed their systems through Best Buy and CompUSA at retail locations . Because of complications with that method of distribution , Alienware decided to better service the customer via direct sales and have since eschewed such an indirect retail presence . Alienware has had a call center in Costa Rica to handle all sales and support calls for a number of years . Alienware has traditionally competed with companies such as Falcon Northwest , Velocity Micro and VoodooPC which is now part of Dell 's biggest competitor , Hewlett - Packard . Alienware also formerly competed against Dell XPS gaming systems before their acquisition . On March 22 , 2006 , Dell agreed to purchase Alienware . Alienware continues to operate under its own brand name . This is noticeable in many regards including the similar looking homepages . This has caused a lot of controversy with gamers as Alienware was a favorite among them while Dell supposedly caters to general computer users . Alienware computers come with a set of Stardock compatible desktop themes preinstalled called AlienGUIse Desktop Manager . This is not currently compatible with Windows Vista . It can also be downloaded from the Alienware website for use without the need for an Alienware system . Alienware manufactures high - performance desktops , notebooks , media centers , and professional systems . Alienware systems include hardware from Intel , AMD , Nvidia , Creative and many more high - end vendors . Alienware 's most famous series of desktops are the Aurora and Area - 51 lines ; Alienware also sells high - end laptops to which their most famous is the Area - 51m . Recently Alienware launched a luxury system line branded with the name ALX , this line has grown into their mobile line as 