Alien Technology is a manufacturer of RFID technology . The company is headquartered in Morgan Hill , California , with an RFID tag manufacturing facility in Fargo , North Dakota , the Alien RFID Solutions Center , in the Dayton , Ohio area , and sales offices in the US , Europe and Asia . It currently employs approximately 235 people . Alien produces ( EPC ) Class 1 and Class 1 Gen 2 RFID inlays , tags and readers designed for use in manufacturing lines , warehouses , distribution centers , and retail stores . Due to potential applications in a wide variety of mass - produced electronic devices , the company received funding and technical support from a number of other manufacturers , such as DuPont Displays and Philips Components . The company 's stock symbol will be RFID , pending its listing on the NASDAQ . Alien Technology was founded in 1994 , but was not focused on RFID products and services until 2000 . From 1994 through 2000 , Alien focused on continued development of Fluidic Self Assembly technology ( FSA® ) , invented at University of California , Berkeley by Prof. John S. Smith . August — Began manufacturing of passive UHF RFID products , including tags and readers using FSA , in a Morgan Hill , California . October — Acquired all of the assets of Wave ID , a privately held company specializing in RFID technology development , via a corporate buy - out . January — Alien won an order from The Gillette Company for 500 million RFID tags . February — North Dakota Senator Byron Dorgan issued a statement that Alien Technology would build a manufacturing plant in Fargo , North Dakota which could employ over 1,000 people with an annual payroll exceeding $50 million . July — Announcement made that the North Dakota State University Research and Technology Park would be the site for the planned expansion of its manufacturing operations in North Dakota . May — A temporary manufacturing facility in Fargo , North Dakota was opened to refine the company 's manufacturing line . January — Alien acquired Quatrotec . LLC , a provider of integration services for baggage handling and screening systems used by the air transportation industry . May — The first High Speed Strap Attach Machine ( HiSAM ) , the center of the company 's manufacturing line , was delivered to the temporary Fargo Facility . August — Ground breaking of the main manufacturing plant in Fargo took place 2 . November — The RFID Solutions Center in Dayton , Ohio opens . December — Second HiSAM is ordered . January — Ohio State University , Ohio University Center for Automatic Identification , Wilberforce University , Wright State University and the University of Cincinnati announced partnerships with the RFID Solutions Center in Dayton , Ohio . April — The main manufacturing site in the North Dakota State University Research and Technology Park in Fargo , ND was opened . June —June 2 , Alien seeks declaratory judgment in in federal district court in the District of North Dakota to disprove Intermec Patent Infringement.June 15 , Alien Technology Corp. gets EPCglobal Certification Mark for its new ultra high frequency ( UHF ) Generation 2 RFID integrated circuit . August — Alien withdraws its Registration Statement for IPO , citing adverse market conditions for new IPOs was not ideal . 3 The following week , 50 of its 250 employees were laid off to reduce costs . New HiSAM equipment delivery 30 - AUG - 06 