Alko is the national alcoholic beverage retailing monopoly in Finland . Essentially , it is the only store in the country which retails beer over 4.7 % ABV , wine ( except in vineyards ) and spirits . Alcoholic beverages are also sold in licensed restaurants and bars to ages 18 and up . Alko is required by law to sell drinks with lower alcohol content than 4.7 % and non - alcoholic alternatives , but in practice carries a very limited stock of low alcohol beer , cider and non - alcoholic drinks and mixers as supermarkets sell the same products at a lower price . As the only means to buy strong retail alcohol in Finland , Alko has an extensive range of products ranging from rare wines to bulk vodka . Its wine selection has grown in recent decades as there has been an increase in consumption and a government drive to change Finnish drinking habits to a more " European " style , which means a move from hard liquor to wine and beer . While wine consumption has increased , this has not replaced consumption of other alcoholic beverages , negating the " Europeanization " argument . Nowadays wines occupy most of the shelf space in an Alko shop . Its beer selection is concentrated on stronger versions of the domestic bulk lagers and some high - quality strong beers from major beer - producing countries as well as traditional Sahti at some locations . Hard spirits include several Finnish brands of vodka and all major types of hard liquor . Alko also sells brands of drinks produced by the Finnish state - owned company Altia , which are traditional products and not sold abroad . Many of these date back to the first products launched after the end of the Prohibition . These are usually for mixing drinks . Alko is a government - owned enterprise reporting to the Finnish Ministry of Health and Social Affairs . As of March 2007 , it has 333 shops and 133 order points throughout the country . Under the Alcohol Act , it cannot have a window display , so it usually has just a display of wine glasses and catalogues . Alko can advertise beverages that contain up to 22 % alcohol . In practice manufacturers or distributors , not Alko , advertise their products . Printed catalogues have information and prices for all products but Internet pages can show only beverages with less than 22 % alcohol . However private individuals have published unofficial over 22 % price lists on the Internet . On the 3 February 2005 , the Finnish Food Marketing Association ( a pressure group of the country 's supermarkets like K - Kauppa and S - Group ) asked the European Union to challenge the legality of Alko 's monopoly , which it disputes . A photo from inside the Alko in Kamppi , Helsinki . Products with under 22 % ABV can be purchased by 18 year olds and up . The minimum age for products containing over 22 % ABV is 20 . When asked at checkout a young person must prove his or her age with an official ID ( only a driver 's licence , ID card or passport is accepted ) . Alcohol will not be sold to drunken customers or when there is a reason to suspect misuse or illegal supply to a person who would not be authorized to buy . During the years 1919 to 1932 , the distribution and consumption of alcoholic 