Allegheny Technologies , Inc. NYSE : ATI is a specialty metals company headquartered in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , USA . It is the 17th largest employer in Allegheny County and one of the last " steel " companies with its headquarters in " The Steel City " and major manufacturing facilities remaining in the area ( though most of its current business involves products other than steel ) . ATI is ranked # 455 on the 2007 Fortune 500 list . The company which has developed to become Allegheny Technologies , Inc. was formed by the merger of Allegheny Ludlum Corporation and Teledyne , Inc. on August 15 , 1996 . The company has since spun off several subsidiaries as independent public companies such as Teledyne Technologies , Inc. and WaterPik Technologies in 1999 , to concentrate on its core business of metal and alloy production . It also sold its World Minerals subsidiary to French company Imerys in 2005 . Allegheny Ludlum Corporation has a long history in Pittsburgh dating back to the Revolutionary War when an ancestor called Pompton Furnace supplied cannon balls to the Continental Army . In 2006 ATI acquired Garryson Limited from Elliott Industries Limited for approximately $17 million . Allegheny Technologies , Inc. produces many specialty metals products for both domestic and international markets . Flat - Rolled Products , which includes stainless steel in sheet , strip , and plate form , nickel - based alloys , silicon electrical steel , and tool steel . High - Performance Materials , which includes titanium - based alloys , zirconium - based alloys and chemicals and other exotic alloys and other materials using hafnium , niobium , and tantalum . Engineered Products , which includes various tungsten - based materials . Allegheny Technologies , Inc. has its offices in downtown Pittsburgh at Six PPG Place , and plants throughout western Pennsylvania . In addition , it has plants in places such as Illinois , Indiana , Ohio , Kentucky , Oregon , Alabama , Connecticut , Massachusetts , and Shanghai , China , as well as several facilities in Europe . 