Alliance & Leicester plc ( LSE : AL. ) is a British bank , formerly a building society . It was formed in 1997 by the flotation of the former Alliance & Leicester Building Society on the London Stock Exchange . It is listed on the FTSE 100 . Its headquarters are in Carlton Park , a business park in Narborough , south of Leicester in England . The group also has premises in Bootle , Manchester , Wigan , Leeds , Ashford and Belfast , and all its contact centres are UK based . The Group provides general insurance , life assurance , unit trusts , personal current accounts and credit cards , asset financing and commercial lending . Its main retail business is in the United Kingdom concentrating on mortgages , current accounts , savings and personal loans . The Group is also endeavouring to expand its commercial operations through ALCB ( Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank ) . The Group 's provision of retail credit cards is through its partner MBNA , and its provision of investments and insurance are through Legal & General , and Zurich respectively . The former building society was formed by the merger of the Alliance Building Society ( originally based in and called the Brighton & Sussex ) and the Leicester Building Society on October 1 , 1985 . In 1990 , the society acquired Girobank , a major banking services provider to small businesses from the Post Office . With other large building societies such as the Halifax and Woolwich , the Alliance & Leicester decided to float the society on the London Stock Exchange , generating windfall payments to members worth up to £5,000 each . Flotation took place on April 21 , 1997 , and the company entered the FTSE 100 . Alliance & Leicester are the principal sponsors of Leicester City F.C. , with the club shirt carrying the logo . Alliance & Leicester has a subsidiary operating in the international market and based on the Isle of Man . On January 26 , 2006 , Alliance & Leicester announced that they were cutting around 350 jobs from their Merseyside offices , despite being official sponsors of the 2008 European Capital of Culture , Liverpool . Bold italics indicate the UK 's big five banks . As of 22 September 2008 . 