Alliance Atlantis Communications Inc. ( TSX : AAC ) , is a Toronto - based media company , which now operates primarily as a specialty service operator in Canada . Alliance Atlantis also has offices in Montreal ( where many of the videos are packaged and distributed ) , Halifax , Los Angeles , London , Dublin , Madrid , Barcelona , Shannon and Sydney . The current company was formed in 1998 from the merger of two former production companies , Alliance Communications and Atlantis Communications . The merger was a bit unusual in that the head of Atlantis , Michael MacMillan , became CEO of the new firm even though Atlantis was the smaller partner in the transaction ; Alliance 's CEO , Robert Lantos , was specifically interested in moving back into a production role . At the time of the merger , both companies had launched various Canadian specialty television services ; in 1995 , Alliance launched Showcase Television while Atlantis launched Life Network ( which has since been renamed " Slice " ) ; in fall 1997 the companies launched History Television and HGTV Canada respectively . Atlantis had also been a major investor in YTV in its first few years before selling out to what is now Corus Entertainment . Alliance Atlantis has been known to fund projects regarded as too controversial by US companies , such as Bowling for Columbine ; it was the Canadian distributor of Fahrenheit 9 / 11 . In 2003 , the company purchased Salter Street Films , which produced a number of television shows for both the Canadian and international market . However , soon after the acquisition , Salter Street was disbanded and its active projects were transferred to Alliance Atlantis ' own television production / development division . Citing lower profits , it has all but closed its production arm , aside from the highly - profitable CSI : Crime Scene Investigation family of series , which it co - produces with CBS Paramount Television . It briefly maintained Salter Street 's long - running This Hour Has 22 Minutes before transferring the show to the Halifax Film Company , made up of former Salter Street employees . Its primary business is now through its ownership of a number of Canadian specialty services , which , in addition to those listed above , now include Food Network Canada , Discovery Health Channel , BBC Canada , BBC Kids and more . On December 20 , 2006 , the company announced it was " exploring strategic alternatives " , effectively putting the company up for sale . A similar announcement was made previously regarding the Motion Picture Distribution unit , which is also expected to be sold separately . On January 10 , 2007 , it was announced that Alliance Atlantis would be acquired by a consortium of Canwest Global and Goldman Sachs , with Canwest expected to take control of the broadcasting portion of the company , and Goldman Sachs to keep ( with another Canadian partner ) or spin off the Entertainment and Production and Motion Picture LP divisions . This would include the stake in the lucrative CSI franchise ; CBS Paramount would gain Alliance Atlantis ' international distribution rights to the programs . In 2007 , Alliance Atlantis was named one of Canada 's Top 100 Employers , as published in Maclean 's magazine , the only broadcaster to be included on the list . Motion Picture Distribution LP , publicly traded through the Movie Distribution Income Fund TSX : FLM.UN , is 