For the Pakistan - based bank , see Allied Bank of Pakistan . Allied Bank , formally known as Allied Banking Corporation , is one of the largest banks in the Philippines , ranking tenth in terms of assets . It is also one of two universal banks in the Philippines to not be traded on the Philippine Stock Exchange , the other being the United Coconut Planters Bank . Allied Bank was incorporated as a bank on April 11 , 1977 . It was registered with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on May 12 and opened for business on June 2 , all in the same year . Later that year , it was authorized by the Bangko Sentral to operate an expanded foreign currency division and became a universal bank in 1981 . A year before that , however , Allied Bank moved its headquarters to its present location at the 14 - storey Allied Bank Tower , located on Ayala Avenue in Makati City . The bank is known for having an expansive foreign presence . In 1978 , it established Allied Capital Resources ( now Allied Banking Corporation ( Hong Kong ) ) in Hong Kong , and in 1981 , became the first bank to syndicate a loan for the Bangko Sentral through its newly - established offshore branch in Bahrain . In 1986 , the bank acquired a development bank . The bank was renamed First Allied Savings Bank , which is now Allied Savings Bank . A year later , it expanded its remittance operations in Europe and the Middle East . In 1989 , Allied Bank launched its Automated Teller ATM and became one of the nine founding banks of BancNet on July 17 , 1990 . It launched its first credit card , a VISA card , in 1992 . Allied Bank was instrumental in the founding of Xiamen Commercial Bank ( now Allied Commercial Bank ) in 1993 , becoming the first Philippine bank to establish a commercial bank in the People 's Republic of China . It also opened representative offices in Tokyo , Sydney and Bangkok in 1996 , expanding its global reach . Three years later , it acquired Orient Commercial Bank . The bank achieved its present domestic branch network in 2001 with the opening of 21 new branches . A year later , it acquired the Iloilo branch of Standard Chartered Bank 's Philippine subsidiary , and opened through Allied Commercial Bank a branch in Chongqing . It also entered the bancassurance arena with the Philippine subsidiary of New York Life . Allied Bank 's main competitors are major Philippine banks like Metrobank , BPI , Equitable PCI Bank , Land Bank of the Philippines and Philippine National Bank . 