Allianz ( help·info ) SE , ( ISIN : DE0008404005 ; IPA pronunciation : , and formerly AG ) is a large financial service provider headquartered in Munich , Germany . By revenue , it is the largest FSP in the world . However , it is much farther down on profit . Core and focus is on the insurance business . With €100 billion of revenue during 2004 Allianz is by far the biggest insurance company in Germany and one of the largest in the world . Allianz AG was founded in Berlin in 1890 and shifted its headquarters to Munich in 1949 . The first step to become an international company started with the opening of a branch office in London in the late 19th century . After World War II , global business activities were gradually resumed . Allianz opened an office in Paris in the late 1950s , and a management office for Italy in the 1960s . These expansions were followed in the 1970s by the establishment of business in Great Britain , the Netherlands , Spain , Brazil and the United States . In 1986 , Allianz acquired Cornhill Insurance PLC , London , and the purchase of a stake in Riunione Adriatica di Sicurt’ ( RAS ) , Milan , strengthened its presence in Western and Southern Europe in the 1980s . Recently , in February 08 , 2006 , RAS Shareholders approved the mergers with Allianz . In 1990 , Allianz started an expansion into eight Eastern European countries with establishing a presence in Hungary . In the same decade , Allianz also acquired Fireman’s Fund , an insurer in the United States , which was follow by the purchase of Assurances Generales de France ( AGF ) , Paris . These acquisitions were followed by the expansion into Asia with several joint ventures and acquisitions in China and South Korea . Around this time Allianz expanded its asset management business as well by purchasing for example asset management companies in California . In 2001 , Allianz acquired Dresdner Bank , a large German bank . Allianz Group and Dresdner Bank combined their asset management activities by forming Allianz Dresdner Asset Management . In 2002 Michael Diekmann succeeded Henning Schulte - Noelle as CEO of Allianz AG . The Allianz Group was reincorporated under a European Company Statute and , as a result of the cross - border merger with RAS , Allianz converted into a European Company ( SE - Societas Europaea ) in October 13 , 2006 . Allianz is now present in more than 70 countries with over 177,000 employees . At the top of the international group is the holding company , Allianz SE , with its head office in Munich . Gerald Feldman 's book Allianz and the German Insurance Business is a look at the links between the Nazi party and big business in 1930s Germany concentrating on Allianz 's relationship . Previous Board member Kurt Schmitt was a German economic leader and the Reich Economy Minister from June 1933 until January 1935 . Eduard Hilgard , a general director of Allianz AG and head of the Reich Association for Private Insurance during the entire National Socialist regime . Allianz 's leadership , represented by directors Kurt Schmitt and Eduard Hilgard , led a policy of drawing nearer to the Nazis , even before they seized power . Already in October 1930 , ties were forged with Hermann Göring . These contacts were realized through company dinners and by providing private financial loans . Heinrich Brüning 