AME Info is a free press releases website about the Middle East . Founded in the United Arab Emirates in 1993 , the company began as a CD - ROM directory of regional businesses and established AMEInfo.com as a support website in April 1996 . In 1999 this directory was moved onto the internet , and content was expanded to include press releases , editorial news , and an events directory . In late 2002 , AME Info launched AME Info Broadcast , a division to produce online business video news features and interviews . The service currently operates in a Flash format for broadband users . In late 2004 , AME Info launched the Middle East 's first online business radio , featuring a mix of popular music and talk content . It is accompanied by stand - alone radio features and interviews with celebrities , such as George Michael , Rod Stewart , Carlos Santana and others . AME Info was initially Arabian Modern Equipment Est. , incorporated in Abu Dhabi , February 1993 by Saif Al - Suwaidi and Klaus Lovgreen . The first version of the AME Info CD - ROM database of 125,000 companies was developed and compiled late 1996 and sold some 10,000 copies . In mid - 1996 , Lars B. Nielsen joined the company as a shareholder and head of sales . In 1997 , major sponsors including Royal Dutch Shell Middle East and UPS allowed the concept to expand , and the 1998 edition of AME Info reached a free circulation of more than 180,000 copies ( 20,000 were distributed in a branded version through Shell in the Middle East magazine ) . Following the 1998 edition , more branded versions were produced for Royal Dutch Shell Middle East , Batelco , Orbit Television and Radio Network and Intel . The circulation in 1999 topped out at some 250,000 free copies distributed through direct mail and magazines including Shell in the Middle East , Gulf Marketing review , The Middle East and Windows User Magazine . In 1999 the company shifted from the CD - ROM platform to the Internet and added content such as company news and current events to the services . In the autumn of 2000 the company added a journalistic touch to the content portfolio and launched AME Info FN headed by Peter Cooper - concentrating on the financial markets and economics in the region . In November 2000 AME Info was awarded " Best Commercial Services Site " by Visa International and Arabian Business . A number of professional contributors across the region has since joined the site with a large variety of vertical content columns including topics such as e - business , environment , education , defence and currency commentary among others . In May 2001 the company moved to Dubai Media City becoming AME Info FZ LLC and expanded its content into multimedia . Its current content includes video and audio features , as well as streaming internet radio . In March 2005 , HSBC Private Equity Middle East Ltd acquired a significant equity stake in AME Info FZ LLC . AME Info was the first Middle East website to achieve certification from the Audit Bureau of Circulations ( ABC ELECTRONIC ) . In July 2006 , London - based Emap plc ( EMA.L ) announced that Emap Communications , its business - to - business ( B2B ) division , has acquired AME Info . The acquisition will strengthen Emap’s portfolio of news and information services and will form an important part 