A pair of And 1 basketball shoes . AND1 is an athletic shoe manufacturer specializing in basketball shoes and apparel . Founded in 1993 , its US headquarters were located in Paoli , Pennsylvania before being relocated to Aliso Viejo , California in 2007 . This article does not cite any references or sources . Please help ] improve this article ] by adding citations to reliable sources . Unverifiable material may be challenged and removed . In 1993 , AND1 initially began as a graduate school project partnership of Seth Berger , Jay Coen Gilbert and Tom Austin . The company name is derived from a phrase used by basketball broadcasters : when a player is fouled while shooting , and still scores a basket , the referees awarded the points for the made basket " and 1 " for the made free throw . Early advertising strategies , used to distinguish their products from others , included other basketball slogans and trash talk , such as " Pass . Save Yourself The Embarrassment " . In mid of 1996 , NBA star Stephon Marbury became the first spokesman for AND1 and once had his own name brand AND1 shoe called " Starbury " . In late 1998 , a videotape containing streetball stunts was delivered to AND1 by Ron Naclerio , coach of the Benjamin Cardozo High school team in Queens , New York . The tape contained low quality camera moves , poor resolution and nearly indecipherable audio featuring a streetballer by the name of Rafer Alston . At the time , Alston was a student at Fresno State who had entered the 1998 NBA Draft . The videotape would soon be known as the " Skip tape " , referring to Alston 's streetball nickname " Skip to my Lou " . Alston later signed AND1 's first endorsement deal . The And 1 Mixtape players have been know to show up in unusual places in the world the play basketball on a local court . In 1999 at Haverford College in Philadelphia , AND1 shot their first series of commercials and print ads incorporating NBA players Darrell Armstrong , Rex Chapman , Larry Hughes , Raef LaFrentz , Toby Bailey , and Miles Simon . When the traditional marketing campaign proved unsuccessful , a strategy was formed to use the " Skip tape " . It was edited and reprinted into 50,000 copies and over the next eight weeks , distributed across basketball camps , clinics , record labels . The tape would become the first " Mix Tape " , and quickly made Alston into a celebrity . When AND1 became a product partner with FootAction , this strategy evolved into a national program . Beginning in the Summer of 1999 , a free AND1 Mix Tape was given with any purchase . Approximately 200,000 tapes were distributed in the span of 3 weeks , making this promotion one of the most successful in U.S retail history . Filmmakers were then sent across the country to capture and find the next streetball legend . On October 31 , 1999 , David Bender initiated the first AND1 free tournament . It was held at Hunter College 's gym and called the " Platinum Player " game , featuring local talents . By June 2000 , AND1 released " Mix Tape , volume 2 " simultaneously with its first sneaker , " The Tochillin " , which sold out nation - wide . In February 2001 , " Mix Tape 3 " was released . By 