ANZ National Bank Limited is the largest bank in New Zealand . It is a subsidiary of Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited of Australia . ANZ National operates in New Zealand with two retail banking brands : ANZ , and National Bank of New Zealand . UDC Finance Limited - provides asset financing including financing for business vehicles and equipment . EFTPOS New Zealand Limited ( ENZ ) its agent for the supply of eftpos terminals and transaction systems to retailers and other businesses . Eftpos New Zealand Limited is one of two eftpos payments systems in New Zealand the other being Electronic Transaction Services Limited which , prior to the purchase of the National Bank of New Zealand by ANZ was equally held by National , ASB Bank , Westpac and the Bank of New Zealand . 1840 : Union Bank of Australia ( UBA ) , a British bank with head office in London , agreed with the New Zealand Company to accompany settlers to New Zealand to provide them with banking services . UBA opened a branch in Petone , across the harbour from Wellington , where it transferred the branch shortly thereafter . Between 1840 and 1947 the Union Bank issued its own bank notes for cirulation in New Zealand . These were initially issued under British law until 1844 when the New Zealand Governor signed an ordinance allowing the Bank to issue bank notes but required that these be a minimum of 1 pound and redeamable at demand for gold or silver . 1848 : The Governor withdrew Union Bank 's right to issue bank notes and transferred these rights to the Colonial Bank of Issue ( CBI ) . UBA notes in circulation were withdrawn and replaced with CBI bank notes . UBA objected , and every day it took whatever CBI notes it had received that day to the CBI and demanded redemption in gold ; when UBA 's customers wanted to withdraw money , the bank paid them in gold rather than CBI notes . This policy , when combined with previous confusion related to the issue of NZ Government debt , and support from the local commercial community , resulted in the CBI ultimately being shut down . 1848 : UBA opened a branch in Auckland , and a small number of branches elsewhere in the country followed . 1856 : UBC resumed issuing bank notes in New Zealand under an act of the New Zealand Parliament . 1864 : Bank of Australasia , another London - based bank , opened branches in Auckland , Dunedin and Christchurch . 1951 : UBA and the Bank of Australasia merged to become the Australia and New Zealand Bank . 1970 : ANZ Bank merged with a third London - based bank , the English , Scottish and Australian Bank , to form ANZ Banking Group . 1976 : ANZ moved its corporate headquarters to Melbourne , Australia . 1979 : An Act of Parliament permitted ANZ to incorporate its branches in New Zealand as ANZ Banking Group ( New Zealand ) Ltd. ANZ sold 25 % of the shares to the public . 1983 : ANZ 's New Zealand head office in Wellington opens . 1989 : ANZ bought PostBank ( the Post Office Savings Bank ) from the New Zealand government in a privatization . Two years earlier the Government had separated the Post Office 's banking business into a separate entity to prepare it for sale . 2003 : ANZ bought National Bank of New Zealand from Lloyds TSB 