AOL is based in Dulles , Virginia . January 2000 , AOL and Time Warner announced plans to merge . The terms of the deal negotiated called for AOL shareholders to own 55 % of the new , combined company . The deal closed on January 11 , 2001 after receiving regulatory approval from the FTC , the FCC and the European Union . AOL Time Warner , as the company was then called , was led by executives from both AOL and Time Warner . Gerald Levin , who had served as CEO of Time Warner , was CEO of the new company . Steve Case served as Chairman , J. Michael Kelly ( from AOL ) was the Chief Financial Officer , Robert W. Pittman ( from AOL ) and Dick Parsons ( from Time Warner ) served as Co - Chief Operating Officers . The total value of AOL stock subsequently plummeted from about $226 billion to about $20 billion . AOL is a company in transition , made evident by discussions of buy - outs and joint ventures during a period of dramatic decline in AOL 's subscriber base . News reports in late 2005 identified companies such as Yahoo ! , Microsoft , and Google as candidates for turning AOL into a joint venture ; those plans were apparently abandoned when it was revealed on December 20 , 2005 that Google would purchase a 5 % share of AOL for $1 billion . In March 31,1997 , the short lived eWorld was purchased by AOL forcing the 115,000 users to suscribe to AOL.The ISP side of AOL UK was bought by The Carphone Warehouse in October 2006 to take advantage of their 100,000 LLU 's , which makes The Carphone Warehouse the biggest LLU provider in the UK , enabling them to offer broadband at no charge to 90 % of their TalkTalk Talk3 customers . AOL began as a short - lived venture called Quantum Computer Services ( or QCS ) , founded by William von Meister . Its sole product was an online service called Gameline for the Atari 2600 video game console after von Meister 's idea of buying music on demand was rejected by Warner Brothers . Gameline permitted subscribers to temporarily download games and keep track of high scores , at a cost of approximately $1 per hour . In 1983 , the company nearly went bankrupt , and an investor in Control Video , Frank Caufield , had a friend of his , Jim Kimsey , brought in as a manufacturing consultant . That same year , Steve Case joined the company as a full - time marketing employee upon the joint recommendations of von Meister and Kimsey . Kimsey went on to become the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) of the newly renamed Quantum Computer Services in 1985 , after von Meister was quietly dropped from the company . Case himself rose quickly through the ranks ; Kimsey promoted him to vice - president of marketing not long after becoming CEO , and later promoted him further to executive vice - president in 1987 . Kimsey soon began to groom Case to ascend to the rank of CEO , which he did when Kimsey retired in 1991 . Kimsey changed the company 's strategy , and in 1985 launched a sort of mega - BBS for Commodore 64 and 128 computers , originally called Quantum Link ( " Q - Link " for short ) . The Quantum Link software was licensed from PlayNet , Inc . 