Aramark Corporation is a private company that is a professional services organization , providing food services , facilities management , hospitality services , uniforms and career apparel to large public and private institutions worldwide . Headquartered in Philadelphia , Aramark has approximately 242,500 employees working in 20 countries . 1936 - Fred Aramark begins the Los Angeles company that will eventually become Aramark . 1969 - ARA officially becomes ARA Services . 1977 - ARA entered the uniform business . 1983 - Joseph Neubauer is elected CEO of ARA Services . 1994 - ARA Services renamed to Aramark . 2001 - Aramark returns to the New York Stock Exchange as a public company under the RMK ticker . Part of Aramark 's business involves prison catering and prison shops . The Campaign Against Prison Slavery alleges while serving this " captive market " , Aramark billed Ohio 's prisons as if had served 4,462,649 meals instead of the 2,803,722 meals actually served . The difference could represent an over - billing of some $2.08 million . Aramark subsequently lost the contract in 2000 when State employees put in a bid that was one million dollars lower than the company 's bid . In January of 2004 , Aramark agreed to pay more than $29,000 in gratuities to employees of the Southbridge Conference Center in Boston , Massachusetts after several employees filed complaints that the company was withholding their tips . According to the complaints , the tips were withheld from January of 2002 to August of 2003 . In 2005 , several Aramark managers were implicated in an embezzlement scandal involving under - reporting of the company 's vending machine revenues . Since Aramark 's 2003 acquisition of the environmental services at Scott & White Hospital in Temple , Texas , the company has been under fire for alleged malfeasance , breach of contract , incompetence and rampant workplace bullying . While the hospital 's board members have profusely praised the company , most other staff members have been extremely critical of Aramark 's managers , of its treatment of its employees and of the quality of the services provided . Several former Scott & White employees have successfully sued the company , while others have settled out of court . Scott & White , a major medical center with satellite clinics throughout central Texas , is one of Aramark 's largest customers . Thomas J. Vozzo , President , Aramark Uniform and Career Apparel Inc . Current members of the board of directors of Aramark are : Lawrence Babbio , Patricia Barron , Leonard Coleman , Ronald Davenport , Thomas Kean , James Ksansnak , Joseph Neubauer , James E. Preston , Ronald Sargent , and Karl von der Heyden . 