As the first Turkish signatory , ARGE supports the UN Global Compact and has been recognized at the European Parliament as one of the three companies " Shaping the Future " with its commitment to corporate social responsibility . ARGE Consulting has developed methodologies in four main advisory areas to address the specific needs of its clients in Turkey with strong focus on strategy development and implementation , total quality management and assessment of business effectiveness , development of human resources management systems and corporate governance , EU strategy development and compliance studies . ARGE , introduced new management concepts such as balanced scorecard , intellectual capital , value management , change management , reputation management in Turkey and senior ARGE consultants have written and published numerous books and articles on the given subjects . TOBB , Koç Holding , Sabancı Holding , Borusan Holding , Kibar Holding , Arçelik , Erdemir , TAI , Bilim İlaç , ETİ , Assan Alüminyum , Beko , Migros , Türk Demir Döküm , Genpa , Hedef Alliance , Marshall Boya . ARGE’s policy of encouraging its employees to donate one day a week for non - profit activities and its achievements in the community has resulted in ARGE being selected as one of the top three companies to Shape the Future with its corporate social responsibility approach by Generation Europe at The European Parliament in 2002 . ARGE Consulting has been the only Turkish company to be featured in the European Commission publication named , " Responsible Entrepreneurship " . ARGE’s corporate social responsibility approach has been featured in a case study prepared by the Bosphorus University and made available to other universities by the European Case Clearing House . ARGE has initiated and participated in a programme with the Turkish Quality Association to encourage individuals with management experience to work at an NGO on a half / full time basis . ARGE was also instrumental in setting up the Corporate Volunteers Association to promote volunteerism in the private sector in Turkey where ARGE contributed to this scheme by providing voluntary work in planning , managing and publicising these efforts as well as developing content and methodology for dissemination . ARGE’s competitors include McKinsey & Company , Ernst & Young , Deloitte , PwC , and other international and local management consulting firms . Junior Consultant ( JC ) is typically a recent MBA graduate with a B.S. degree from a reputable university in Turkey , EU and USA , with outstanding problem - solving and analytical skills , and preferably with a few years of business experience . The JC role lasts for three years , after which outstanding JC’s are invited to stay for as a Senior Consultant ( SC ) . 