ARM Limited is a technology company headquartered in England . Founded in 1990 , the company is best known for its processors , although it also designs , licenses and sells software development tools under the RealView and KEIL brands , systems and platforms , system - on - a - chip infrastructure and software . ARM is listed under its associated holding company ( ARM Holdings PLC ) on the London Stock Exchange ( symbol : ARM ) and NASDAQ ( symbol : ARMHY ) . It is probably the best - known of the Silicon Fen companies . The company was founded as a joint venture between Acorn Computers and Apple Computer ( as Advanced RISC Machines ) , intended to further the development of the Acorn RISC Machine 's RISC chip , which was originally used in the Acorn Archimedes and is now the processing core for many custom application - specific integrated circuits ( ASICs ) . It has since expanded and now has offices and design centres across the world , including Sunnyvale , California , Austin , Texas , Olympia , Washington , Trondheim , Norway , Sophia Antipolis , France , Munich , Germany , Leuven , Belgium Taiwan , Shin Yokohama , Japan , China , and India . A characteristic feature of ARM processors is their low electric power consumption , which makes them particularly suitable for use in portable devices . In fact , almost all modern mobile phones and personal digital assistants contain ARM CPUs , making them the most widely - used 32 - bit microprocessor family in the world , more so than the better - known 32 - bit Pentium 4 processors found in many PCs . Today ARMs account for over 75 % of all 32 - bit embedded CPUs . ARM processors are used as the main CPU for most mobile phones , including those manufactured by Nokia , Sony Ericsson and Samsung ; many personal digital assistants and handhelds , like the Apple iPod & iPhone , Nintendo Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS , Gamepark GP32 , and Gamepark Holdings GP2X ; as well as many other applications , including GPS , digital cameras , digital televisions , network devices and storage . Unlike other microprocessor corporations such as AMD , Intel , Freescale ( formerly Motorola ) and Renesas ( formerly Hitachi and Mitsubishi ) , ARM only licenses its technology as intellectual property ( IP ) , rather than manufacturing its own CPUs . Thus , there are a few dozen companies making processors based on ARM 's designs . Intel , Freescale and Renesas have all licensed ARM technology . In 2005 , 1.7 billion chips based on an ARM design were manufactured . Along the way , ARM has grown both organically and through acquisitions . In 1998 Advanced RISC Machines Ltd name is changed to ARM Ltd , 50 million cores a year shipped . In 2000 ARM acquired Allant Software , a developer of debugging software ; Infinite Designs , a design company based in Sheffield , UK and EuroMIPS a smart card design house in Sophia Antipolis . In 2001 , ARM acquired the engineering team of Noral Micrologics , a debug hardware and software company based in Blackburn , UK . In 2002 , Artisan Components acquired NurLogic Design a PHY and analogue mixed signal company based in San Diego , CA . China office is opened . In 2003 , ARM acquired Adelante Technologies of Belgium , creating its OptimoDE data engines business 