ASML is a Dutch company and the world’s primary supplier of lithography systems for the semiconductor industry . Of all the major chip producers worldwide , more than 80 % are ASML customers . The company manufactures complex machines that are crucial in the production of integrated circuits ( also called ICs or chips ) . ASML systems – steppers and step - and - scan machines – use a photographic process to apply patterns onto silicon wafer ( electronics ) . The wafers are first covered with a thin film of light - sensitive material ( photoresist ) , and a light source ( e.g. a laser beam ) projects an image of a pattern onto the wafer through a reducing lens . The wafer is then developed and undergoes further treatment to create the first layer of the circuit pattern . This procedure is repeated 30 to 40 times creating a wafer full of IC 's layer by layer . When finished , these IC 's are used to make electronic products that people use everyday in their homes , at work or when they travel , such as computers , TV 's , cameras , mobile telephones , smart cards and MP3 players . In fact , 60 % of all computer chips produced worldwide are manufactured with ASML machines ( data 2007 ) . The greatest challenge that ASML and its customers face is to create ever - smaller chips , with more features , more storage , faster operation or lower energy consumption . All this has to do with Moore’s Law . Primarily , lithography systems determine whether the chip size can be reduced : the size of the projected image needs to be ever smaller . The smallest images that ASML systems currently can create on silicon wafers measure 37 nanometres ( February 2007 ) . ASML is a technological leader with a strong market position . ASML’s corporate headquarters is in Veldhoven , the Netherlands . It is also the location for research , development , manufacturing and assembly . ASML has a worldwide customer base and over fifty service points in fourteen countries . The company is listed on both the AEX and NASDAQ Stock Exchanges , as ASML . 