This article is about the wireless subsidiary of AT&T . For the defunct wireless provider that was merged into Cingular in 2004 , see AT&T Wireless Services . AT&T Mobility LLC ( usually branded " AT&T " , and formerly named Cingular Wireless LLC ) is the wholly owned wireless subsidiary of AT&T Inc . AT&T Mobility currently has 62 million subscribers as of 2007 , and operates the largest digital voice and data network in the United States . Formerly a joint venture between SBC Communications and BellSouth , Cingular Wireless soon acquired the old AT&T Wireless ; SBC later acquired the original AT&T and rebranded as " the new AT&T " . Cingular became wholly - owned by the new AT&T in December 2006 as a result of AT&T 's acquisition of BellSouth . The division is currently in the process of being rebranded to match its new parentage . Renaming on a corporate level occurred immediately , and consumer branding will change to " AT&T , " or a variant thereof , by the end of 2007 . Until all regulatory filings are approved , however , and public awareness is fostered , the " Cingular " brand will continue to be used in store signage and media advertisements during a dual - branded transition , expected to last several months . This process began January 15 , 2007 . Among the services that AT&T aggressively promotes is its " Rollover " service , allowing customers to keep unused minutes from month to month on a twelve - month rolling cycle on its popular " Nation " nationwide plans . Cingular Wireless LLC was founded in 2001 as a joint venture of SBC Communications ( now AT&T , Inc. ) , and BellSouth ( which AT&T Inc. acquired in 2006 ) . The joint venture created the nation 's second largest carrier . Cingular grew out of a conglomeration of 12 regional companies with Bell roots . BellSouth Mobility DCS , Inc . Southwestern Bell Wireless , Inc . Also included were some Cellular One markets , and Houston Cellular . Cingular 's lineage can be traced back to Advanced Mobile Phone Service , Inc. ( companies spun off from this denoted with a * ) , which was a subsidiary of AT&T created in 1978 to provide cellular service nationwide . AMPS , Inc. was divided among the RBOCs as part of the Bell System Divestiture . With the exception of Pacific Bell and BellSouth Mobility DCS , the digital network consisted of D - AMPS technology . The Pacific Bell and BellSouth Mobility DCS networks used GSM technology on the PCS frequency band ( 1900 MHz ) . After a bidding war with Britain 's Vodafone PLC , Cingular announced in February 2004 that it would purchase AT&T Wireless Services , Inc. , for $41 billion . The merger was completed on October 26 , 2004 . The combined company had a customer base of 46 million people at the time , making Cingular the largest wireless provider in the United States . AT&T Wireless was then legally renamed New Cingular Wireless Services , Inc . First announced on June 22 , 2005 Cingular Wireless announced the intention to divest its Caribbean and Bermuda operations and licenses which it acquired from the acquisition of AT&T Wireless , to Irish - owned and Jamaica - based Digicel Group under undisclosed financial terms . In 2006 , one year following the deal , a high ranking source allegedly close to the sale pointed the Barbados Daily Nation 