AT&T Wireless Services , Inc. , formerly part of AT&T Corp. , was a wireless telephone carrier in the United States , based in Redmond , Washington , and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the stock symbol " AWE " . On October 26 , 2004 , AT&T Wireless completed a merger with Cingular Wireless to become the largest wireless carrier in the United States . Under the agreement , only the Cingular brand name would remain . On November 16 , 2004 , AT&T Wireless stores were rechristened under the Cingular banner . The legal entity AT&T Wireless Services , Inc. was renamed New Cingular Wireless Services , Inc . In late 2005 , SBC ( the majority partner in Cingular ) acquired AT&T Corp. , and renamed the combined company AT&T . It has been suggested that this article or section be merged with McCaw Cellular . In 1994 , AT&T purchased the largest cellular carrier , McCaw Communications , for $11.5 billion and kick - started their cellular division with 2 million subscribers . AT&T Wireless grew to be the nations largest cellular provider by the end of 1997 but by 1999 and 2000 the cellular industry began to consolidate and Verizon Wireless and Cingular Wireless became the first and second largest national carriers . The year 1999 also brought John D. Zeglis as chief executive in October , followed a few months later by Dan Hesse 's departure , who had been head of the division since 1997 . Over the next year and a half all six McCaw regional presidents left the company . In April 2000 , AT&T Wireless became a separately traded entity with the world 's largest initial public offering at that time . Followed , just over a year later in July 2001 , by AT&T Wireless became a separate company rather than a division of AT&T Corp . As of January 1 , 2004 , the largest single shareholder of AT&T Wireless was Japan 's NTT DoCoMo . AT&T Wireless was the third largest wireless telephone carrier in the United States before merging with Cingular in October 2004 . On February 13 , 2004 , AT&T Wireless accepted bids for acquisition of the wireless company . The two top bidders were British carrier Vodafone and American competitor Cingular . Cingular was owned by two Baby Bells ; 40 % by BellSouth and 60 % by SBC Communications , Inc. SBC would later acquire AT&T Corp. in 2006 and adopt the latter 's name , becoming AT&T Inc. Vodafone owns 45 % of Verizon Wireless and had it succeeded in the bid , their share of Verizon Wireless would then have been sold to parent company Verizon Communications . Cingular emerged victorious February 17 by agreeing to pay more than $41 billion , more than twice the company 's recent trading value , to acquire AT&T Wireless . Some analysts have said that although Vodafone , the world 's largest mobile operator , was unsuccessful in acquiring the company , it was nonetheless successful in forcing a competitor to overpay for the acquisition of AT&T Wireless . The sale received US government approval and closed on October 26 , creating the nation 's largest wireless carrier , overtaking Verizon Wireless . The AT&T Wireless brand was retired by Cingular on April 26 , 2005 , six months after the close of the merger . This was per a pre spin - off agreement with AT&T Corp. that stated that if AT&T Wireless was to be bought by a 