The AT&T Long Lines wire , cable , and microwave radio relay network provided long - distance transport services to AT&T and its customers from the late 1940s to the early 1980s . Formal opening of the coast to coast connection was on August 17 , 1951 . A sophisticated achievement , Long Lines provided computerized reconfiguration of microwave circuits coast - to - coast via AT&T 's network control center in New York City , NY. By the 1970s , Long Lines carried 95 percent of all long - haul television traffic , and 70 percent of intercity telephone calls in the United States . Before utilizing microwave relay , AT&T used heavy - duty open - wire lines for Long distance service . The introduction of vacuum tube amplifiers allowed such connections to reach across North America . In the 1930s the company experimented with long - distance coaxial ( coax ) cable . The first long - distance coaxial link in 1936 connected Philadelphia and New York . After World War II it was quickly determined that microwave relay networks were less expensive and easier to build , especially over mountainous regions and rough terrain , and Long Lines evolved into a hybrid network . L - 4 and L - 5 coaxial systems connected all major US cities , and a digital millimeter waveguide system connected New York to Philadelphia , but the primary medium was C band microwave air links . A presidential address from Harry Truman inaugurated the Long Lines network , demonstrating coast - to - coast service . The Long Lines network allowed events such as ABC’s Monday Night Football to be nationally broadcast live and Long Lines also permitted distribution of regional sports events , such as Saturday football games prior to the adaptation of satellite communications in the 1970s . By the 1980s , alternatives ( including fiber optics and satellites ) were replacing microwave as the preferred network transport , but the remnants of the Long Lines microwave network can still be seen across the country - side today , in the form of abandoned relay towers , or towers being reused for other purposes ( public safety communications , cellular phone sites , etc ) . In 1950 , New York City 's five boroughs were dialed from various communities in New Jersey with the digits ' 1 - 1 ' followed by the 7 digit telephone number . While New York City was assigned Area code 212 at the very beginning of the Area Code format in October 1947 , it would n't be until later in the 1950s when Englewood , New Jersey customers would dial their calls to New York City using the digits 2 - 1 - 2 . The use of the ' 11 + ' code from Englewood ( and other parts of northeastern New Jersey ) to call New York City had been in place for a while , even prior to 1951 . New York City 's five boroughs also had been dialing northeastern New Jersey as 11 + the two letters and five digits of the New Jersey number as well for a while prior to 1951 and until the later 1950s . AT&T Long Lines Microwave Relay Tower just off of Indiana Hwy 49 north of Valparaiso , Indiana - - Still in use as a microwave television relay between Chicago and South Bend , IN. Tower is 25 ' square , 190 ' tall , and built of concrete using the slip - pour method . The 