Alascom , Inc. d / b / a AT&T Alascom is an Alaskan telecommunications company ; specifically , an interexchange carrier ( IXC ) . AT&T Alascom is currently a wholly owned subsidiary of AT&T . AT&T Alascom , previously known as Alascom and many other names , was the first long - distance telephone company in Alaska . AT&T Alascom has extensive telecommunications infrastructure in Alaska , including three satellites , undersea and terrestrial fiber - optic cable , and numerous earth stations . Unlike most of the United States , AT&T had no role in Alaskan telecommunications as a local or long - distance telephone provider until the purchase of Alascom in 1995 . Alaska was also never served by any of the Regional Bell Operating Companies . Alascom and GCI have been the two primary competitors for long - distance telephone service in Alaska since GCI 's founding in 1979 . The company began in 1900 when the U.S. Congress authorized the U.S. Army Signal Corps to create the Washington - Alaska Military Cable and Telegraph System , or WAMCATS . During the 1940s and World War II , the U.S. Army completed the system and it became known as the Alaska Communications System ( ACS ) and the White Alice Communications System . In 1970 , RCA Corporation purchased ACS and renamed it RCA Alascom . Alascom greatly built up the telecommunications infrastructure in the state during this time , due to RCA 's major involvement in communications satellites . In 1979 , Pacific Power & Light Company ( also known as Pacific Telecom , Inc. ) purchased RCA Alascom and it became known as Alascom , Inc . The company launched three communications satellites into orbit : Aurora I on October 27 , 1982 , Aurora II on May 29 , 1991 , and Aurora III in 2000 . All three satellites are dedicated solely to providing telecommunications services to Alaska . AT&T purchased Alascom in 1995 and gave the company its current name . Regulatory approval of the purchase required the company to continue to exist as a separate entity from AT&T . 