ATI Technologies U.L.C. ATI is a major Canadian designer and supplier of graphics processing units , motherboard chipsets , and video display cards . ATI is the world 's second largest GPU company ( after NVIDIA ) .ATI is a canonical fabless semiconductor company , conducts research and development in - house , but subcontracts manufacturing and assembly to third - parties . Originally formed in 1985 , in October 2006 they were purchased by AMD and currently operate as a wholly owned subsidiary . For much of the 21st century they have been involved in a constant battle for market share of the " high end " graphics cards market with NVIDIA , their primary rival . As of 2004 , ATI 's flagship product line is the Radeon series of graphics cards which directly compete with those boards using NVIDIA 's GeForce . The two companies ' dominance of the market has forced other vendors into niche roles . ATI 's Silicon Valley office . ATI was founded under the name Array Technologies Incorporated in 1985 by three Chinese immigrants , China - born Kwok Yuen Ho and Hong Kong - born Benny Lau and Lee Lau . Array Technologies primarily worked in the OEM field , producing integrated graphics chips for large PC manufacturers like IBM . By 1987 it had evolved into an independent graphics card retailer , marketing the EGA Wonder and VGA Wonder graphics cards under its own ATI moniker . In 1997 ATI acquired Tseng Labs 's graphics assets , which included 40 engineers . In 2000 , ATI acquired ArtX , the company that engineered the " Flipper " graphics chip used in the Nintendo GameCube games console . They have also created a modified version of the chip for the successor of the GameCube , named Wii . ATI was contracted by Microsoft to create the graphics chip for Microsoft Xbox 360 . Later in 2005 , ATI acquired Terayon 's Cable Modem Silicon Intellectual Property cementing their lead in the consumer digital television market . Its current President and Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) is David E. Orton ( formerly of ArtX ) . K. Y. Ho remained as Chairman of the Board until he retired on November 22 , 2005 . On July 24 , 2006 , AMD and ATI announced a plan to merge together in a deal valued at US$5.4 billion . The merger closed October 25 , 2006 . The acquisition consideration included over $2 billion financed from a loan , as well as 56 million shares of AMD stock . Even though now owned by AMD , ATI will retain its name , logos , and trademarks . In addition to developing high - end GPUs ( graphics processing unit , something ATI calls a VPU , visual processing unit ) for PCs , ATI also designs embedded versions for laptops ( called " Mobility Radeon " ) , PDAs and mobile phones ( " Imageon " ) , integrated motherboards ( " Radeon IGP " ) , set - top boxes ( " Xilleon " ) and other technology - based market segments . Thanks to this diverse portfolio , ATI has been traditionally the dominant player in the OEM and multimedia markets . As of 2005 , ATI has announced that a deal has been struck with CPU and Motherboard manufacturers , particularly Asus and Intel , to create onboard 3D Graphics solutions for Intel 's new range of motherboards that will be released with their new range of Intel Pentium M 