ATTO Technology is a manufacturer of storage connectivity and infrastructure solutions for data - intensive computing environments . ATTO manufactures host adapters , interface - bridging appliances , Virtual Tape Library appliances , RAID appliances , and management software with storage interface connectivity to SCSI , SATA , SAS , Fibre Channel , NDMP , Gigabit Ethernet and iSCSI . The company was founded in 1988 by Timothy J. Klein and David A. Snell and is headquartered in Amherst , New York . All of ATTO 's products are engineered and manufactured in the United States and ATTO has delivered more than an estimated 1.5 million products to the market in a broad range of storage applications and environments . ATTO 's products are sold worldwide directly to Original Equipment Manufacturers ( OEMs ) and systems integrators as well as through ATTO authorized distributors and resellers . ATTO OEM customers encompass a wide range of technology companies including Apple Computer , EMC – Data General , Eastman Kodak , Quantum , SUN Microsystems , Avid Technology , Overland Storage , NEC , ADIC , Unisys and many more . Some of the countries where ATTOs products are available include : United States , Canada , Mexico , Latin & South America , Australia , New Zealand , China , Korea , South West Asia ( India , Pakistan and Sri Lanka ) , Taiwan , Africa , the Middle East , Europe and Japan . Products include software , Host Adapters ( Fibre Channel , SCSI , SAS , SATA and GigE ) , sometimes called Storage Adapters or Host Bus Adapters ( HBAs ) . Other products include appliances which are replacements for servers and are self contained hardware that include Virtual tape or RAID software for use in video and IT markets . Protocol conversion products , called bridges also are produced and convert one protocol to another , Fibre Channel to iSCSI , Fibre Channel to SCSI or Fibre Channel to SAS / SATA for instance . Storage - intensive applications such as database management , online transaction processing ( OLTP ) , E - mail , Internet serving and document management solutions . Streaming media applications such as digital video , digital audio , film , broadcast and video - on - demand solutions . Image - intensive applications such as mapping , pre - press , publishing , printing , CAD / CAM , medical and document imaging . Server environments for direct attach and / or network attached storage such as SAN and NAS with disk , tape , optical , CD or other storage media . Enterprise backup environments such as tape library connectivity , disk - based backup and serverless backup solutions . 