AVL , or Anstalt für Verbrennungskraftmaschinen List , is an Austrian - based automotive consulting firm as well as an independent research institute . It is the largest privately owned company for the development of powertrain systems with internal combustion engines as well as instrumentation and test systems . AVL was founded by Professor Doctor Hans List in 1948 , after he became an independent engineer . The company was primarily focused on diesel truck engines , and after great success , branched out in 1960 to include an engine instrumentation division . In 1969 , AVL developed a revolutionary test bed which allowed for comprehensive data acquisition and analysis . Throughout the 1970s , AVL 's diesel engine performance and data acquisition capabilities continued to improve , while its PUMA test bed software began to give the company an international reputation . The founder 's son Helmut List became the management chairman in 1979 . After more innovations and more success in the 1980s , AVL opened its AST ( Advanced Simulation Technology ) division in 1987 . Some of the AVL 's special skills are widely known and available to the technically interested public . One is developing and improving 4 - wheel - drive systems . Another is car sound design , for practically all car producers around the globe . This is why , in general , more silently running vehicles can be distinguished by their manufacturer . However , the sounds are sensitively matched to the local aural expectations , therefore they sound differently in Japan , South Korea , the US , Germany , or Italy . More significantly , each type of vehicle is expected to have a characteristic sound ; a sport roadster 's sound greatly differs from an SUV as well as a same - company cruising limousine . CEO Helmut List is also eponymous for the Helmut - List - Halle , a large multi - purpose cultural venue . It hosts many events during the annual Styrian Autumn Festival . As the hall particularly features ideal acoustic conditions for classical concerts , one of its estimators is a worldwide renowned Mozart expert who grew up in Graz , conductor Nikolaus Harnoncourt . 