AWB Limited ( ASX : AWB ) is the Australian former - monopoly , company that oversees the exports of grain , particularly wheat . The AWB was a government body known as the Australian Wheat Board until 1 July 1999 , when the AWB was transformed into a private company , owned by wheat growers . On 22 January 2001 , AWB was floated on the Australian Stock Exchange . The AWB was the " single desk " for the sale of Australian wheat . However on 22 December , the Howard government issued permits for two other companies to start exporting wheat ; Wheat Australia to export 300,000 tonnes to Iraq , and CBH to export 500,000 tonnes to Indonesia . AWB has been the subject of controversy recently , amid revelations that the company paid kickbacks to former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein . These revelations and the subsequent Cole Inquiry called by the Australian Government may result in criminal charges being brought against many current and former executives of AWB and could lead to permanent changes to , or the ending of , AWB 's export monopoly . On 29 January 2007 the first non - AWB wheat shipment since 1939 left Western Australia for Indonesia . AWB exports “into more than 50 countries , with Australian wheat exports worth up to $5 billion per year” ( AWB 2006 ) . It is given a near - monopoly by the Government , where it is the largest seller of wheat that is permitted to negotiate with overseas buyers and make export sales . AWB has veto power over any other prospective exporter of wheat , which effectively eliminates competition . However , the Wheat Export Authority , on average , allows around 4 % of total wheat exports to be exported by others , but this is not allowed to be in bulk , only bags and containers . The principle of the single desk is to prevent Australian farmers from being played off against each other by large corporate customers / grains traders . AWB represents all Australian wheat on the world market , hoping to achieve a higher / more stable average sales price for all farmers than would be achieved if they were each competing to sell their own wheat to the same small number of large customers / grains traders . As part of this , all wheat of a given grade is pooled , and farmers are paid in several stages according to the proportion of the pool that has been sold , rather than being paid in full only when their particular shipment of grain is sold . The continued status of AWB 's export monopoly has been the subject of heated debate between wheat growers and politicians in recent years in Australia , with strong arguments both in favour of preserving and abolishing AWB 's monopoly on wheat exports . The AWB was founded in the late 1930s , to regulate the wheat market after the excesses of the Great Depression . The single desk dates to this period . The Canadian Wheat Board was initially modelled on the Australian Wheat Board . Since privatisation , AWB has grown to incorporate a number of subsidiaries to diversify its income away from its monopoloy on wheat exports . Its subsidiary businesses include GrainFlow to manage collection of grain from farmers to ports , companies to ship the grain overseas to customers , and Landmark rural services . AWB Limited is a holding company owning a number of subsidiaries . Its shareholding 