AYH are a Quantity Surveying firm , whose head office is based in London . As well as London , AYH have other offices in the UK . These are based at Manchester , Leeds , Birmingham and Glasgow . The origins of AYH plc go back to 1946 when Stanley Axtell set up a Quantity Surveying business in the City of London . Between 1946 and 1994 the business developed as a Quantity Surveying partnership with the acronym AYH being derived from the surnames of the early partners messers . Axtell , Yates and Hallett - all now retired . Throughout this period the practice grew steadily and broadened both its service base to include firstly Project Management and subsequently Building Surveying and Facilities Consultancy and its area of operation with the opening of UK regional and overseas offices . Following a period of retrenchment during the economic recession of the early nineties , AYH Partnership was incorporated in February 1994 with little change of ownership . In March 1999 the holding of the four major shareholders was purchased by a team of existing senior managers , led by David Thompson , already a major shareholder himself . The new owners , most of whom were in the early forties , provided an ambitious and dynamic impetus for the growth of AYH . The period since March 1999 has seen AYH grow in terms of market reputation and financial performance . AYH is now established as one of the leading independent construction and property consultants . At the beginning of 2002 , AYH restructured its operations from a skill and regional office - based structure into fully integrated market sector groups , designed to provide the platform for the next stage of the growth . 2006 AYH completes the acquisition of Summerfield Robb Clark based in Edinburgh and Glasgow . AYH acquires Berkeley Consulting adding a new market sector providing new service lines in infrastructure , nuclear and utilities . Today , AYH is one of the leading Construction and Property Consultants with a turnover of some £20 million and circa 450 employees , of which 400 are technically qualified consultants . The Company operates in five clearly defined market sectors in which it has particular expertise and has established a significant loyal client base . AYH 's core activity is the provision of Capital Project Services which represents 90 % of the Company 's total turnover . Capital Project Services comprise Project Management and Cost Consultancy as well as a broad range of other construction and property services including health & safety , services engineering , program planning and dispute resolution . Over a number of years , AYH has developed a range of Occupational Services , which include facilities management , facilities consultancy , out - sourcing of on - site support and under the banner of m3 , a full relocation management service . AYH is a privately owned public limited company , owned by both its employees and an employee share ownership trust . One of AYH 's most recent projects is Arsenal FC 's Emirates Stadium . 